RISK FACTORS  An investment in the Company has risk. We discuss below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC various risk factors that could cause our financial results and condition to vary significantly from period to period. We refer you to the “Regulation and Supervision” section of this report for more information about legislative and regulatory risks and to the Financial Review section and Financial Statements and related Notes on pages 33 through 113 of our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders, filed as Exhibit 13 to this report, and incorporated by reference, for more information about credit, interest rate and market risks. Any factor described below or elsewhere in this report or in our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, have a material adverse effect on our financial results and condition and on the value of an investment in Wells Fargo. Refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC for material changes from the risk factors described below.  In accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we caution you that one or more of these same factors, as well as other factors described in this report and in our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders, could cause us to fall short of expectations for our future financial and business performance that we express in forward-looking statements in this report and other reports we file with the SEC and in other communications. We make forward-looking statements when we use words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “will,” “may,” “can” and similar expressions. Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements, as actual results may differ significantly from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and we do not undertake to update them to reflect changes or events that occur after that date.  For example, in our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders, we make forward-looking statements about:       •   the expected impact of expensing stock options on our 2006 earnings per share;     •   the expected impact of pending and proposed accounting standards, including FASB Staff Position No. 13-a relating to leveraged lease transactions;     •   future credit losses and nonperforming assets, including changes in the amount of nonaccrual loans due to portfolio growth, portfolio seasoning and other factors;     •   future short-term and long-term interest rate levels and their impact on our net interest margin, net income, liquidity and capital;     •   anticipated capital expenditures in 2006;     •   expectations for unfunded credit and equity investment commitments;     •   the expected impact of pending and threatened legal actions on our results of operations and stockholders’ equity;     •   the anticipated use of proceeds from the issuance of securities;     •   the amount and timing of future contributions to the Cash Balance Plan;     •   the recovery of our investment in variable interest entities;    12    Table of Contents       •   future reclassification to earnings of deferred net gains on derivatives;     •   expected completion dates of pending business combinations and other acquisitions; and     •   the amount of contingent consideration payable in connection with certain acquisitions.    Our ability to grow revenue and earnings will suffer if we are unable to cross-sell more products to customers.  Selling more products to our customers – or “cross-selling” – is the essence of our business model and key to our ability to grow revenue and earnings. Many of our competitors also focus on cross-selling, especially in retail banking and mortgage lending. This can put pressure on us to sell our products at lower prices, reducing our net interest income and revenue from our fee-based products. It could also affect our ability to keep existing customers. New technologies could require us to spend more to modify or adapt our products to attract and retain customers. Increasing our cross-sell ratio – or the average number of products sold to existing customers – may become more challenging, and we might not attain our goal of selling an average of eight products to each customer.  An economic slowdown could reduce demand for our products and services and lead to lower revenue and lower earnings.  We earn revenue from interest and fees we charge on the loans and other products and services we sell. When the economy slows, the demand for those products and services can fall, reducing our interest and fee income and our earnings. An economic downturn can also hurt the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, causing us to incur more credit losses than we estimated. Several factors could cause the economy to slow down or even recede, including higher energy costs, higher interest rates, reduced consumer or corporate spending, natural disasters such as hurricane Katrina, terrorist activities, military conflicts, and the normal cyclical nature of the economy.  Changes in stock market prices could reduce fee income from our brokerage and asset management businesses.  We earn fee income from managing assets for others and providing brokerage services. Because investment management fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a fall in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee income. Changes in stock market prices could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from our brokerage business.  For more information, refer to “Risk Management – Asset/Liability and Market Risk Management – Market Risk-Equity Markets” in the Financial Review section of our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders.  13    Table of Contents  Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings.  Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans, debt securities and other assets we hold minus the interest we pay on our deposits, long-term and short-term debt and other liabilities. Net interest income reflects both our net interest margin – the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding – and the amount of earning assets we hold. As a result, changes in either our net interest margin or the amount of earning assets we hold could affect our net interest income and our earnings.  Changes in interest rates – up or down – could adversely affect our net interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up.  Changes in the slope of the “yield curve” – or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates – could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets.  We assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction, magnitude and speed of interest rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. We hedge some of that interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives. We also rely on the “natural hedge” that our loan originations and servicing rights can provide.  We do not hedge all of our interest rate risk. There is always the risk that changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and our earnings in material amounts, especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than what we assumed. For example, if interest rates rise or fall faster than we assumed or the slope of the yield curve changes, we may incur significant losses on debt securities we hold as investments. To reduce our interest rate risk, we may rebalance our investment and loan portfolios, refinance our debt and take other strategic actions. We may incur losses or expenses when we take such actions.  For more information, refer to “Risk Management – Asset/Liability and Market Risk Management – Interest Rate Risk” in the Financial Review section of our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders.  14    Table of Contents  Changes in interest rates could also reduce the value of our mortgage servicing rights and earnings.  We have a sizeable portfolio of mortgage servicing rights. A mortgage servicing right (MSR) is the right to service a mortgage loan – collect principal, interest, escrow amounts, etc. – for a fee. We acquire MSRs when we originate mortgage loans and keep the servicing rights after we sell or securitize the loans or when we purchase the servicing rights to mortgage loans originated by other lenders. We carry MSRs at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value is the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers.  Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. When interest rates fall, borrowers are more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our MSRs can decrease. Each quarter we evaluate our MSRs for impairment based on the difference between carrying amount and fair value at quarter end. If temporary impairment exists, we establish a valuation allowance through a charge to earnings for the amount the carrying amount exceeds fair value. We also evaluate our MSRs for other-than-temporary impairment. If we determine that permanent impairment exists, we will recognize a direct write-down of the carrying value of the MSRs.  For more information, refer to “Critical Accounting Policies – Valuation of Mortgage Servicing Rights” and “Risk Management – Asset/Liability and Market Risk Management – Mortgage Banking Interest Rate Risk” in the Financial Review section of our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders.  Higher credit losses could require us to increase our allowance for credit losses through a charge to earnings.  When we loan money or commit to loan money we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for credit losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio (including unfunded credit commitments). The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans.  We might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable rate loans could see their payments increase. In the absence of offsetting factors such as increased economic activity and higher wages, this could reduce their ability to repay their loans, resulting  15    Table of Contents  in our increasing the allowance. We might also increase the allowance because of unexpected events, as we did in third quarter 2005 for hurricane Katrina.  Hurricane Katrina has affected our loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral and by impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans. The ultimate impact of the hurricane on us is difficult to predict and will be affected by a number of factors, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent to which damaged collateral is not covered by insurance, the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by the hurricane adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, and the cost to us of collection and foreclosure moratoriums, loan forbearances and other accommodations granted to borrowers and other customers. The impact of the hurricane on us may be greater than anticipated.  For more information, refer to “Critical Accounting Policies – Allowance for Credit Losses” and “Risk Management – Credit Risk Management Process” in the Financial Review section of our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders.  Our mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from quarter to quarter.  We earn revenue from fees we receive for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. When rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan originations. At the same time, revenue from our MSRs can increase, either through recovery of a previously established valuation allowance or a reduction in the periodic amortization expense. When rates fall, mortgage originations tend to increase and the value of our MSRs tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. Even though they can act as a “natural hedge,” the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For example, the negative effect on revenue from an increase in the MSRs valuation allowance is immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the MSRs relating to the new loans would accrue over time.  From time to time we may use derivatives and other instruments to hedge our mortgage banking interest rate risk. We generally do not hedge all of our risk, and the fact that we attempt to hedge any of the risk does not mean we will be successful. Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring, and is not a perfect science. We may use hedging instruments tied to U.S. Treasury rates or LIBOR that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. We could incur losses from our hedging activities. There may be periods where we elect not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk.  For more information, refer to “Risk Management – Asset/Liability and Market Risk Management – Mortgage Banking Interest Rate Risk” in the Financial Review section of our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders.  16    Table of Contents  Our venture capital business can also be volatile from quarter to quarter.  Earnings from our venture capital investments can be volatile and hard to predict and can have a significant effect on our earnings from period to period. When – and if – we recognize gains can depend on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, when these companies go public, the size of our position relative to the public float, and whether we are subject to any resale restrictions. Our venture capital investments could result in significant losses.  We assess our private and public equity portfolio at least quarterly for other-than-temporary impairment based on a number of factors, including the then current market value of each investment compared to its carrying value. Our venture capital investments tend to be in technology, telecommunications and other volatile industries, so the value of our public and private equity portfolios can fluctuate widely. If we determine there is other-than-temporary impairment for an investment, we will write-down the carrying value of the investment, resulting in a charge to earnings. The amount of this charge could be significant, especially if under accounting rules we were required previously to write-up the value because of higher market prices.  For more information, refer to “Risk Management – Asset/Liability and Market Risk Management – Market Risk-Equity Markets” in the Financial Review section of our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders.  We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for revenue, and federal and state law can limit those dividends.  Wells Fargo & Company, the parent holding company, is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives a significant portion of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. We use these dividends to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and interest and principal on our debt. Federal and state laws limit the amount of dividends that our bank and some of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to us. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors.  For more information, refer to “Regulation and Supervision – Dividend Restrictions” and “– Holding Company Structure” in this report and to Notes 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions) and 25 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders.  17    Table of Contents  Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition.  Our accounting policies are fundamental to understanding our financial results and condition. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Three of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. For a description of these three policies, refer to “Critical Accounting Policies” in the Financial Review section of our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders.  From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial results and condition. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts.  Acquisitions could reduce our stock price upon announcement and reduce our earnings if we overpay or have difficulty integrating them.  We regularly explore opportunities to acquire companies in the financial services industry. We cannot predict the frequency, size or timing of our acquisitions, and we typically do not comment publicly on a possible acquisition until we have signed a definitive agreement. When we do announce an acquisition, our stock price may fall depending on the size of the acquisition and the purchase price. It is also possible that an acquisition could dilute earnings per share.  We must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bank holding company. In deciding whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, and future prospects including current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution’s record of compliance under the Community Reinvestment Act, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering. Also, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. We might be required to sell banks, branches and/or business units as a condition to receiving regulatory approval.  Difficulty in integrating an acquired company may cause us not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run-  18    Table of Contents  off), loss of key employees, disruption of our business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise harm our ability to retain customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Time and resources spent on integration may also impair our ability to grow our existing businesses. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected.  Federal and state regulations can restrict our business, and non-compliance could result in penalties, litigation and damage to our reputation.  Our parent company, our subsidiary banks and many of our nonbank subsidiaries are heavily regulated at the federal and/or state levels. This regulation is to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers and the banking system as a whole, not our stockholders. Federal and state regulations can significantly restrict our businesses, and we could be fined or otherwise penalized if we are found to be out of compliance.  Recent high-profile corporate scandals and other events have resulted in additional regulations. For example, Sarbanes-Oxley limits the types of non-audit services our outside auditors may provide to us in order to preserve the independence of our auditors from us. If our auditors were found not to be “independent” of us under SEC rules, we could be required to engage new auditors and file new financial statements and audit reports with the SEC. We could be out of compliance with SEC rules until new financial statements and audit reports were filed, limiting our ability to raise capital and resulting in other adverse consequences.  Sarbanes-Oxley also requires our management to evaluate the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures and its internal control over financial reporting and requires our auditors to issue a report on our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to disclose, in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, the existence of any “material weaknesses” in our internal control. We cannot assure that we will not find one or more material weaknesses as of the end of any given year, nor can we predict the effect on our stock price of disclosure of a material weakness.  The Patriot Act, which was enacted in the wake of the September 2001 terrorist attacks, requires us to implement new or revised policies and procedures relating to anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activities, and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The Patriot Act also requires federal bank regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition.  A number of states have recently challenged the position of the OCC as the sole regulator of national banks. If these challenges are successful or if Congress acts to give greater effect to state regulation, the impact on us could be significant, not only because of the potential additional restrictions on our businesses but also from having to comply with potentially 50 different sets of regulations.  19    Table of Contents  From time to time Congress considers legislation that could significantly change our regulatory environment, potentially increasing our cost of doing business, limiting the activities we may pursue or affecting the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. As an example, our business model depends on sharing information among the family of Wells Fargo businesses to better satisfy our customers’ needs. Laws that restrict the ability of our companies to share information about customers could limit our ability to cross-sell products and services, reducing our revenue and earnings.  For more information, refer to “Regulation and Supervision” in this report and to “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders.  Negative publicity could damage our reputation.  Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Because we conduct most of our businesses under the “Wells Fargo” brand, negative public opinion about one business could affect our other businesses.  Our bank customers could take their money out of the bank and put it in alternative investments, causing us to lose a lower cost source of funding.  Checking and savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. When customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, we can lose a relatively low cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income.  We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.  In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we rely on the accuracy and completeness of information about our customers, including financial statements and other financial information and reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may assume that a customer’s audited financial statements conform with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We also may rely on the  20    Table of Contents  audit report covering those financial statements. If that information is incorrect or incomplete, we may incur credit losses or other charges to earnings.  We rely on others to help us with our operations.  We rely on outside vendors to provide key components of our business operations such as internet connections and network access. Disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor or any failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes of use could hurt our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of an outside vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor’s ability to serve us.  Federal Reserve Board policies can significantly impact business and economic conditions and our financial results and condition.  The Federal Reserve Board (FRB) regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. They also can materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt securities and MSRs. Its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in FRB policies are beyond our control and can be hard to predict.  Our stock price can be volatile due to other factors.  Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, in addition to those described above, including:       •   general business and economic conditions;     •   recommendations by securities analysts;     •   new technology used, or services offered, by our competitors;     •   operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;     •   news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry;     •   changes in government regulations;     •   natural disasters, such as the recent Gulf State hurricanes; and     •   geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.    21    Table of Contents  ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN NET INTEREST INCOME