Item 1A. Risk Factors The company has had no significant changes in its risk factors from those previously disclosed in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, except as noted below. Volatility and disruption in world capital and credit markets, as well as adverse changes in the global economy, can negatively affect Invesco's revenues, operations, financial condition and liquidity.In recent years, capital and credit markets have experienced substantial volatility. In this regard:•In the event of extreme circumstances, including economic, political, or business crises, such as a widespread systemic failure or disruptions in the global financial system or failures of firms that have significant obligations as counterparties on financial instruments, we may suffer significant declines in AUM and severe liquidity or valuation problems in managed investment products in which client and company assets are invested, all of which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, liquidity, credit ratings, ability to access capital markets, and retention and ability to attract key employees. Additionally, these factors could impact our ability to realize the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets.•In addition to the impact of the market volatility on client portfolios, illiquidity and/or volatility of the global fixed income and/or equity markets could negatively affect our ability to manage client inflows and outflows or to timely meet client redemption requests.•Our money market funds have always maintained a net asset value (NAV) of $1.00 per share; however, we do not guarantee such level. Market conditions could lead to severe liquidity issues in money market products, which could affect their NAVs.•If the NAV of one of our money market funds were to decline below $1.00 per share, such funds could experience significant redemptions in AUM, loss of shareholder confidence and reputational harm. In the U.S., regulations requiring a variable (“floating”) NAV for institutional money market funds will become effective in 2016.•Even if central bank, legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts continue to stabilize the financial markets, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment.•More broadly, uncertainties regarding geopolitical developments can produce volatility in global financial markets. In this regard, the U.K. electorate will vote on June 23, 2016 whether to exit the European Union (“Brexit”). A vote to exit could produce market declines that could impact our AUM. In addition, because the U.K. Pound Sterling is the functional currency for certain of our subsidiaries, any weakening of the U.K. Pound Sterling relative to the U.S. dollar related to a Brexit could negatively impact our reported financial results. Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds