Item 1A. Risk Factors The company has had no significant changes in its risk factors from those previously disclosed in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, except as noted below. Our independent registered public accounting firm has advised us that it identified an issue related to an independence requirement contained in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 regulations regarding auditor independence. In May 2016, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) advised the Company that it had identified an issue related to its independence under Rule 2-01(c)(1)(ii)(A) of Regulation S-X (the “Loan Rule”) with respect to certain of PwC’s lenders who own certain Invesco registered funds managed by certain of our wholly-owned investment adviser subsidiaries. The Company and such funds are required to have their financial statements audited by a public accounting firm that qualifies as independent under various SEC rules. As discussed below, the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC Staff”) has issued a “no-action” letter to another mutual fund complex under substantially similar circumstances that provides temporary relief for eighteen months from the date of the no-action letter issuance. The Loan Rule prohibits accounting firms, such as PwC, from having certain financial relationships with their audit clients and affiliated entities. Specifically, the Loan Rule provides, in relevant part, that an accounting firm is not independent if it receives a loan from a lender that is a “record or beneficial owner of more than ten percent of the audit client’s equity securities.” For purposes of the Loan Rule, audit clients include all of the registered investment companies advised by affiliates of the Company, as well as the Company and its other subsidiaries (collectively, the “Invesco Funds Complex”) for which PwC also serves as independent auditor. PwC informed the Company it has relationships with lenders who hold, as record owner, more than ten percent of the shares of certain funds within the Invesco Fund Complex. These relationships call into question PwC’s independence under the Loan Rule with respect to those funds, as well as all other funds in the Invesco Fund Complex and the Company and its subsidiaries. On June 20, 2016, the SEC Staff issued a “no-action” letter to another mutual fund complex (see Fidelity Management & Research Company et al., No-Action Letter) related to the audit independence issue described above. In that letter, the SEC Staff confirmed that it would not recommend enforcement action against an audit client that relied on audit services performed by an audit firm that was not in compliance with the Loan Rule in certain specified circumstances. The circumstances described in the no-action letter appear to be substantially similar to the circumstances that called into question PwC’s independence under the Loan Rule with respect to the Invesco Funds Complex, including the Company. The Company therefore believes that the Invesco Funds Complex can rely on the letter to continue to issue financial statements that are audited by PwC and we intend to do so. The SEC Staff has indicated that the no-action relief will expire eighteen months from its issuance (i.e., on December 20, 2017). PwC has advised the Audit Committee that it is continuing to have discussions with the SEC Staff regarding permanent relief. If in the future the independence of PwC is called into question under the Loan Rule by circumstances that are not addressed in the SEC Staff’s no-action letter or permanent relief regarding this matter is not granted by the SEC, the Company will need to take other action and incur additional costs in order for the Company’s filings with the SEC containing financial statements to be deemed compliant with applicable securities laws. Such action may include obtaining the review and audit of the financial statements filed by the Company by another independent registered public accounting firm. In addition, under such circumstances, the Company’s eligibility to issue securities under its existing registration statements on Form S-3 and Forms S-8 may be impacted and certain financial reporting covenants with our lenders may be impacted. There could be other burdensome requirements or impacts on other entities (including registered funds) included in the Invesco Funds Complex. Such consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Volatility and disruption in world capital and credit markets, as well as adverse changes in the global economy, can negatively affect Invesco's revenues, operations, financial condition and liquidity.In recent years, capital and credit markets have experienced substantial volatility. In this regard:79Table of Contents   •In the event of extreme circumstances, including economic, political, or business crises, such as a widespread systemic failure or disruptions in the global financial system or failures of firms that have significant obligations as counterparties on financial instruments, we may suffer significant declines in AUM and severe liquidity or valuation problems in managed investment products in which client and company assets are invested, all of which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, liquidity, credit ratings, ability to access capital markets, and retention and ability to attract key employees. Additionally, these factors could impact our ability to realize the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets.•In addition to the impact of the market volatility on client portfolios, illiquidity and/or volatility of the global fixed income and/or equity markets could negatively affect our ability to manage client inflows and outflows or to timely meet client redemption requests.•Our money market funds have always maintained a net asset value (NAV) of $1.00 per share; however, we do not guarantee such level. Market conditions could lead to severe liquidity issues in money market products, which could affect their NAVs.•If the NAV of one of our money market funds were to decline below $1.00 per share, such funds could experience significant redemptions in AUM, loss of shareholder confidence and reputational harm. In the U.S., regulations requiring a variable (“floating”) NAV for institutional money market funds will become effective in 2016.•Even if central bank, legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts continue to stabilize the financial markets, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment.•More broadly, uncertainties regarding geopolitical developments can produce volatility in global financial markets. In this regard, the U.K. electorate voted on June 23, 2016 to exit the European Union (“Brexit”). The vote to exit resulted in market volatility that may continue during the Brexit negotiation process. This may impact the levels and composition of our AUM and also negatively impact investor sentiment, which could result in reduced or negative flows. In addition, because the U.K. Pound Sterling is the functional currency for certain of our subsidiaries, any weakening of the U.K. Pound Sterling relative to the U.S. dollar related to a Brexit could negatively impact our reported financial results.Legislative and other measures that may be taken by U.S. and/or other governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows.Under current laws, as the company is domiciled and tax resident in Bermuda, taxation in other jurisdictions is dependent upon the types and the extent of the activities of the company undertaken in those jurisdictions. There is a risk that changes in either the types of activities undertaken by the company or changes in tax rules relating to tax residency could subject the company and its shareholders to additional taxation.On April 4, 2016, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and Treasury Department proposed new regulations under Section 385 (the “Proposed Regulations”) that would fundamentally rewrite existing law concerning the tax classification of intercompany debt instruments and represent a significant departure from traditional debt-equity analyses. Although the Proposed Regulations identify targeted transactions, the rules would apply generally to all U.S. corporations, including Invesco’s U.S. subsidiaries, and re-characterize as equity a number of related-party financings that routinely arise in the ordinary course of business operations, both domestically and internationally. In particular, the Proposed Regulations would have a profound impact on a range of modern treasury management techniques currently available to Invesco, including cash pooling and intercompany cash mobilization and deployment. Due to the uncertainties surrounding the final form of the regulations, Invesco cannot at this time predict their full impact. Final regulations are expected to be issued in the second half of 2016.On October 5, 2015, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) released its final reports related to its action plan for multilateral cooperation to address tax base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) concerns. The second phase of the BEPS project covers clarifications, implementation, and monitoring. Countries have already begun to implement some of the action items and will continue to adopt more of them over the next several years. As with any global implementation process there are concerns about potential lack of consistency in the local application of these items. Some of the recommendations are complex while others contain optional routes, thereby increasing the likelihood of only partial or limited implementation. Countries may also decide to implement their own approaches unilaterally, independent of the BEPS recommendations. This could lead to increased uncertainty with tax positions as well as increase the potential for double taxation.We continually assess the impact of various U.S. federal, state, and foreign legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the United States and foreign countries, which could result in a material increase in our U.S. federal, state, or foreign taxes. From time-to-time, proposals are introduced in the U.S. Congress that, if ultimately enacted, could either limit treaty benefits on certain payments made by our U.S. subsidiaries to non-U.S. affiliates, treat the company as a U.S. corporation 80Table of Contents   and thereby subject the earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries of the company to U.S. taxation, or both. There continue to be numerous proposals calling for fundamental U.S. corporate tax reform.We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. However, if such proposals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing tax treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on the company, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our future results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds