Item 1A. Risk Factors  You should carefully consider the risks described below, which supplement the risks disclosed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2009, as well as the factors described at the beginning of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” You should also consider all of the other risks disclosed in our annual report on Form 10-K in evaluating us. Our business, financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks.  Proposed legislative and regulatory reforms may have a significant impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  The U.S. Congress is considering extensive changes to the laws regulating financial services firms. On June 30, 2010, the House approved the “Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” (the “Reform Act”). The Senate is expected to vote on the Reform Act in mid-July and the President is expected to sign it into law shortly after final approval by the Senate. The Reform Act, as well as other legislative and regulatory changes, could have a significant impact on us by, for example, requiring us to change our business practices, requiring us to establish more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements, limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, imposing additional costs on us, limiting fees we can charge for services, impacting the value of our assets, or otherwise adversely affecting our businesses. A description of the Reform Act and other legislative and regulatory developments is contained in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Legislative and Regulatory Developments.”  If enacted, the Reform Act will likely result in increased scrutiny and oversight of consumer financial services and products, primarily through the establishment of a new independent “Consumer Financial Protection Bureau” within the Federal Reserve. The Bureau would have broad rulemaking and enforcement authority over providers of credit, savings and payment services and products. The Bureau would have rulemaking and interpretive authority under existing and future consumer financial services laws and supervisory, examination and enforcement authority over institutions subject to its jurisdiction, which would include us. State officials would be authorized to enforce consumer protection rules issued by the Bureau.  In addition, the Reform Act authorizes the Federal Reserve to regulate interchange fees paid to banks on debit card transactions to ensure that they are “reasonable and proportional” to the cost of processing individual transactions, and prohibits debit card networks and issuers from requiring transactions to be processed on a single payment network. The Reform Act also prohibits credit/debit network rules that restrict merchants’ ability to offer discounts to customers in order to encourage them to use a particular form of payment, as long as such discounts do not discriminate against issuers or networks. The impact of these provisions on the debit card market and the PULSE network is uncertain at this time and will depend upon Federal Reserve implementing regulations, the actions of our competitors and the behavior of other marketplace participants.  Many provisions of the Reform Act require the adoption of rules to implement. In addition, the Reform Act mandates multiple studies, which could result in additional legislative or regulatory action. The effect of the    78    Table of Contents  Reform Act and its implementing regulations on our business and operations could be significant. In addition, we may be required to invest significant management time and resources to address the various provisions of the Reform Act and the numerous regulations that are required to be issued under it. The Reform Act, any related legislation and any implementing regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.      Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds