Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following risk factors supplement those disclosed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2011. If our security systems, or those of third parties, containing information about us, our customers or third parties with which we do business, are compromised, we may be subject to liability and damage to our reputation. Our direct banking and network operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential information about us, our customers and third parties with which we do business. Information security risks for financial institutions are increasing, in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, activists, hackers and other external parties, including foreign state actors. Our technologies, systems, networks and software, and those of other financial institutions, have been and are likely to continue to be the target of cyber attacks, malicious code, computer viruses and denial of service attacks that could result in unauthorized access, misuse, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer information), account takeovers, unavailability of service or other events. These types of threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of external or internal parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. Despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems through our information security and business continuity programs, we may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources. As we rely on many third-party service providers and network participants, a security breach or cyber attack affecting one of these third parties could impact us through no fault of our own. Further, to access our products and services, our customers may use computers and mobile devices that are beyond our security control systems.We are subject to increasingly more risk related to security systems as we increase acceptance of the Discover card internationally, expand our suite of online direct banking products, enhance our mobile payment technologies, acquire new or outsource some of our business operations, and expand our internal usage of web-based products and applications. If our security systems or those of third parties are penetrated or circumvented such that the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information about us, our customers, transactions processed on our networks or third parties with which we do business is compromised, we could be subject to significant liability that may not be covered by insurance, including significant legal and financial exposure, actions by our regulators, damage to our reputation, or a loss of confidence in the security of our systems, products and services that could adversely affect our business.The success of our mortgage business acquisition depends upon our ability to maintain the operations, integrate and manage the risks of this business, and to successfully market, originate and sell Discover mortgage loans. If we are unable to do so, the profitability of our mortgage business would be adversely affected.On June 6, 2012, we purchased substantially all of the operating and related assets of Home Loan Center, Inc. (“HLC”), a subsidiary of Tree.com, Inc. (“Tree.com”), adding a residential mortgage component to our direct banking business. We are now originating residential mortgages that we expect to be eligible for sale in the secondary mortgage markets on a servicing-released basis. The initial success of this acquisition depends upon our ability to maintain the operations of, integrate and manage the risks of this business, as well to procure certain state licenses. We currently have all of the licenses that we require to operate in approximately 45 states and the District of Columbia. As we integrate this new business, we could experience operational interruptions that could damage relationships with customers, vendors and secondary market investors, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations.The long-term success of our mortgage business depends upon our ability to market, originate, fund and sell Discover mortgage loans. Our mortgage loan origination volume will be largely dependent on our ability to offer competitively priced, desirable loan products under the Discover brand and our ability to attract qualified prospective borrowers. We use third parties to assist us in attracting prospective borrowers. Consumers may be hesitant to originate a mortgage with us due to our recent entry into the industry. Our origination volumes also may be affected by certain external factors outside our control, including adverse economic conditions, such as high unemployment and depressed housing values, which may result in some consumers delaying new home purchases or refinances. We expect refinance mortgage loan volume to comprise a substantial percentage of overall mortgage loan volume for our business in the near term. If interest rates rise, refinance volume would likely decline, 76Table of Contentswhich would increase our need to build our purchase mortgage loan volume.Our success also will depend upon relationships with financial intermediaries, including secondary market purchasers, to which we expect to sell eligible mortgages on a servicing-released basis, and our warehouse lender, which provides funding from the time we fund a customer's mortgage until it is sold to a secondary market purchaser. The secondary mortgage markets, as well as the availability of mortgage financing, have been experiencing continued disruptions resulting from reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and increased investor yield requirements for those loans and securities. For example, Bank of America, one of HLC's three largest secondary market purchasers during 2011, announced in August 2011 its intent to sell its correspondent lending business and ceased purchasing loans from HLC in November 2011. In addition, our recent entry in the mortgage industry, as well as continued concern about the stability of the housing market and the strength of counterparties generally, could result in fewer opportunities to sell our loans in the secondary market on attractive terms. If we are unable to sell our loans in the secondary market, we could incur additional credit risk and losses. If we are unable to maintain the warehouse facility we use to fund our mortgage originations, funding costs and liquidity could be adversely impacted. Furthermore, when we sell the rights to service loans we originate, we expose ourselves to the risk that borrowers will be dissatisfied with their experience with the buyer of those servicing rights and will attribute that dissatisfaction to us.We may employ various economic hedging strategies in an attempt to mitigate the interest rate and other risks inherent in a mortgage loan commitment. Our hedging activities may include entering into derivative instruments. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could fail to mitigate our risks and losses, or even increase our risks and losses beyond what they would have been had we not used such hedging strategies.The mortgage industry is under scrutiny from regulatory agencies and, as a state-licensed business, our mortgage business is subject to examination and supervision by state mortgage regulatory agencies, as well as the CFPB and the Federal Reserve. We may incur substantial cost in preparing for and responding to regulatory examinations and investigations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulatory requirements may result in, among other things, suspension or revocation of, or inability to renew, required licenses or registrations, loss of approval status, administrative enforcement actions and fines, refunds or restitution to borrowers, inability to enforce loans we make, loan repurchase or indemnification obligations, private lawsuits, class actions, cease and desist orders, civil and criminal liability, an inability to maintain or enter into new arrangements with secondary mortgage market purchasers or warehouse lenders and reputational risk.Our ability to eventually generate profit from our mortgage business depends upon our ability to manage our expenses and risks. If we are unable to build scale as planned, we may face difficulty achieving profitability. We may also incur additional expenses and risks if we are unable to successfully address and manage the regulatory and counterparty risks described above or the potential effects of government involvement in the mortgage industry. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Regulatory Environment and Developments - Consumer Financial Services” for more information. We may experience unanticipated losses as a result of mortgage loan repurchase and indemnification obligations under agreements with secondary market purchasers.We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that have been sold to secondary market purchasers in the event there are certain breaches of certain representations and warranties contained within the sales agreements, such as improper underwriting, fraud, or other origination defects. We also may be required to indemnify certain purchasers and others against losses they incur in the event of breaches of representations and warranties and in various other circumstances, and the amount of such losses could exceed the repurchase amount of the related loans. In connection with the sale of loans to secondary market purchasers, we also expect to refund premiums paid by secondary market purchasers in instances where the borrower prepays the loan within a specified period of time. We would need to find alternative purchasers for, or service or arrange with a third party to service, any loans that we are unable to sell or are required to repurchase.Consequently, we are exposed to credit risk, and potentially funding risk, associated with sold loans due to the risk we may be required to repurchase these loans. We will establish reserves in our consolidated financial statements for potential losses that are considered to be both probable and reasonably estimable related to the mortgage loans we have sold. The adequacy of the reserves and the ultimate amount of losses incurred will depend on, among other things, the actual future mortgage loan performance, the actual level of future repurchase and indemnification requests, the actual success rate of claimants, actual recoveries on the collateral and macroeconomic conditions. Adverse economic conditions, including high unemployment and depressed housing values, have resulted in missed mortgage payments and foreclosures, negatively impacting the credit performance of mortgages. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the housing markets will improve materially in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on the credit performance of mortgages. Due to uncertainties relating to these factors, there can be no assurance that the reserves that we will establish will be adequate or that the total amount of losses incurred will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 77Table of ContentsItem 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds