Item 1A. Risk Factors” of our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, regarding fixed term contract risk.   Capital Resources   During the three months ended March 31, 2016, we completed two new FlexRigs. We are scheduled to complete another two FlexRigs during this fiscal year. As in prior fiscal periods, each of the new FlexRigs is committed to work for an exploration and production company under a fixed-term contract, performing drilling services on a daywork contract basis.   Our capital spending estimate for fiscal 2016 is expected to be in the range of $300 million to $350 million. The actual spending level may vary depending primarily on actual maintenance capital requirements and market driven special projects related to the further enhancement of our existing fleet. All new FlexRigs scheduled for delivery during calendar 2016 are supported with multi-year contracts. Capital expenditures were $180.5 million and $766.0 million for the first six months of fiscal 2016 and 2015, respectively.   There were no other significant changes in our financial position since September 30, 2015.   39      Table of Contents   MATERIAL COMMITMENTS   Material commitments as reported in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K have not changed significantly at March 31, 2016.   CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES   Our accounting policies and estimates that are critical or the most important to understand our financial condition and results of operations and that require management to make the most difficult judgments are described in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. There have been no material changes in these critical accounting policies and estimates.   RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS   In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which supersedes virtually all existing revenue recognition guidance. The new standard requires an entity to recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. This update also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract. The provisions of ASU 2014-09 are effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and we have the option of using either a full retrospective or a modified retrospective approach when adopting this new standard. We are currently evaluating the alternative transition methods and the potential effects of the adoption of this update on our financial statements.   In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Financial Instruments — Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. The standard requires entities to measure equity investments that do not result in consolidation and are not accounted for under the equity method at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value in net income. The provisions of ASU 2016-01 are effective for interim and annual periods starting after December 15, 2017. At adoption, a cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning retained earnings will be recorded. We will adopt this standard on October 1, 2018. Subsequent to adoption, changes in the fair value of our available-for-sale investments will be recognized in net income and the effect will be subject to stock market fluctuations.   In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes requiring all deferred tax assets and liabilities be classified as noncurrent on the balance sheet instead of separating deferred taxes into current and noncurrent amounts. The guidance is effective for financial statements issued for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, however, we have elected to early adopt effective October 1, 2015 prospectively. As a result of the adoption, we will no longer have deferred income taxes as a current asset in our Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet.   In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). ASU 2016-02 will require organizations that lease assets — referred to as “lessees” — to recognize on the balance sheet the assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by those leases. Under ASU 2016-02, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than 12 months. Lessor accounting remains substantially similar to current GAAP. In addition, disclosures of leasing activities are to be expanded to include qualitative along with specific quantitative information. For public entities, ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. ASU 2016-02 mandates a modified retrospective transition method. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements.   In March 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-09, Compensation — Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. ASU 2016-09 simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. For public entities, ASU 2016-09 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements.   40      Table of Contents   ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   For a description of our market risks, see   · Note 4 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements contained in Item 1 of Part I hereof with regard to equity price risk is incorporated herein by reference; · “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 25, 2015; · Note 8 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements contained in Item 1 of Part I hereof with regard to interest rate risk is incorporated herein by reference; · Note 14 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements contained in Item 1 of Part I hereof with regard to foreign currency exchange rate risk is incorporated herein by reference; and · Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part II hereof with regard to commodity price risk and foreign currency exchange risk.   ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   Beginning in fiscal 2015, we began designing and implementing a new enterprise resource planning system. We are implementing aspects of this system in discrete phases and the initial and most significant transition from our current system to the new system occurred in February 2016. As we move forward, this implementation will continue to require us to monitor and maintain appropriate internal control over financial reporting. While we expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will remain largely similar or unchanged, it is possible that during the implementation, we may make changes to our internal control over financial reporting that could materially affect our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, it is possible that during future phases of the implementation, we may make changes to our internal control over financial reporting that may not materially affect our internal control over financial reporting, but, when fully implemented, the cumulative effect of the changes made may be considered material.   As of the end of the period covered by this report, an evaluation was performed with the participation of our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based on that evaluation, our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of March 31, 2016 at ensuring that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. There have been no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting that occurred during the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting.   41      Table of Contents   PART II. OTHER INFORMATION   ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   Investigation by the U.S. Attorney. On November 8, 2013, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana approved the previously disclosed October 30, 2013 plea agreement between our wholly owned subsidiary, Helmerich & Payne International Drilling Co., and the United States Department of Justice, United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Louisiana (“DOJ”). The court’s approval of the plea agreement resolved the DOJ’s investigation into certain choke manifold testing irregularities that occurred in 2010 at one of Helmerich & Payne International Drilling Co.’s offshore platform rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. We have been engaged in discussions with the Inspector General’s office of the Department of Interior regarding the same events that were the subject of the DOJ’s investigation. We can provide no assurances as to the timing or eventual outcome of these discussions and are unable to determine the amount of penalty, if any, that may be assessed. However, we presently believe that the outcome of our discussions will not have a material adverse effect on the Company.   Venezuela Expropriation. Our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Helmerich & Payne International Drilling Co. and Helmerich & Payne de Venezuela, C.A. filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia on September 23, 2011 against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A. (“PDVSA”) and PDVSA Petroleo, S.A. (“Petroleo”). We are seeking damages for the taking of our Venezuelan drilling business in violation of international law and for breach of contract. While there exists the possibility of realizing a recovery, we are currently unable to determine the timing or amounts we may receive, if any, or the likelihood of recovery.   ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   Our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, which is significantly impacted by the volatility of oil and natural gas prices and other factors, including the recent decline in oil prices.   Our business depends on the conditions of the land and offshore oil and natural gas industry. Demand for our services depends on oil and natural gas industry exploration and production activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. Oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations regarding potential changes to these prices, significantly affect oil and natural gas industry activity.   In June 2014, oil prices reached over $106 per barrel and then began to decline significantly during the second half of 2014 and continued to decline in 2015 closing below $40 per barrel by December 31, 2015. During early 2016, oil prices dropped below $30 per barrel before recovering to recent price levels of over $40 per barrel. As a result, many of our customers announced significant reductions in their 2016 capital spending budgets. At March 31, 2015, 179 out of an available 332 land rigs were working in the U.S. Land segment. In contrast, at March 31, 2016, 94 out of an available 347 land rigs were contracted in the U.S. Land segment. After giving effect to new FlexRigs placed into service and additional rig releases since March 31, 2016, as of May 2, 2016, 84 rigs remain contracted in the U.S. Land segment. In the event oil prices remain depressed for a sustained period, or decline further, our U.S. Land, International Land and Offshore segments may experience further, significant declines in both drilling activity and spot dayrate pricing which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   Oil and natural gas prices are impacted by many factors beyond our control, including:   · the demand for oil and natural gas; · the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; · the worldwide economy; · expectations about future oil and natural gas prices; · domestic and international tax policies; · political and military conflicts in oil producing regions or other geographical areas or acts of terrorism in the U.S. or elsewhere; · technological advances; · the development and exploitation of alternative fuels; · local and international political, economic and weather conditions; · the ability of The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to set and maintain production levels and pricing; · the level of production by OPEC and non-OPEC countries; and · the environmental and other laws and governmental regulations regarding exploration and development of oil and natural gas reserves.   42      Table of Contents   The level of land and offshore exploration, development and production activity and the price for oil and natural gas is volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Higher oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily translate into increased activity because demand for our services is typically driven by our customer’s expectations of future commodity prices. However, a sustained decline in worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or prolonged low oil or natural gas prices would likely result in reduced exploration and development of land and offshore areas and a decline in the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   We are subject to the political, economic and social instability risks and local laws associated with doing business in certain foreign countries.   We currently have operations in South America, the Middle East and Africa. In the future, we may further expand the geographic reach of our operations. As a result, we are exposed to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered in U.S. operations, including increased risks of social unrest, strikes, terrorism, war, kidnapping of employees, nationalization, forced negotiation or modification of contracts, difficulty resolving disputes and enforcing contract provisions, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of oil and gas exploration and drilling rights, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions and restrictions on repatriation of income and capital, currency rate fluctuations, increased governmental ownership and regulation of the economy and industry in the markets in which we operate, economic and financial instability of national oil companies, and restrictive governmental regulation, bureaucratic delays and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted.   South American countries, in particular, have historically experienced uneven periods of economic growth, as well as recession, periods of high inflation and general economic and political instability. From time to time these risks have impacted our business. For example, on June 30, 2010, the Venezuelan government expropriated 11 rigs and associated real and personal property owned by our Venezuelan subsidiary. Prior thereto, we also experienced currency devaluation losses in Venezuela and difficulty repatriating U.S. dollars to the United States. Today, our contracts for work in foreign countries generally provide for payment in U.S. dollars. However, in Argentina we are paid in Argentine pesos. The Argentine branch of one of our second-tier subsidiaries then remits U.S. dollars to its U.S. parent by converting the Argentine pesos into U.S. dollars through the Argentine Foreign Exchange Market and repatriating the U.S. dollars. In the future, other contracts or applicable law may require payments to be made in foreign currencies. As such, there can be no assurance that we will not experience in Argentina or elsewhere a devaluation of foreign currency, foreign exchange restrictions or other difficulties repatriating U.S. dollars even if we are able to negotiate contract provisions designed to mitigate such risks.   In December 2015, the Company experienced aggregate foreign currency losses of $8.5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2015. The losses are primarily the result of a sharp devaluation of the Argentine peso in December 2015. It is expected that the Argentine peso will be allowed to float in the free exchange market and foreign exchange restrictions will be less prohibitive. However, whether in Argentine or elsewhere, in the event of future payments in foreign currencies and an inability to timely exchange foreign currencies for U.S. dollars, we may incur currency devaluation losses which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   In March 2016, the Venezuelan government implemented the previously announced plans for a new foreign currency exchange system. The implementation of this system resulted in a reported loss from discontinued operations of $4.0 million in the second fiscal quarter of 2016, all of which corresponds to the Company’s former operations in Venezuela.   Additionally, there can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws, regulations and administrative requirements or the interpretation thereof which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations or on our ability to continue operations in certain areas. Because of the impact of local laws, our future operations in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities (including joint ventures) in which we hold only a minority interest or pursuant to arrangements under which we conduct operations under contract to local entities. While we believe that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on our operations or revenues, there can be no assurance that we will in all cases be able to structure or restructure our operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms we find acceptable.   Although we attempt to minimize the potential impact of such risks by operating in more than one geographical area, during the six months ended March 31, 2016, approximately 14.1 percent of our consolidated operating revenues were generated from international locations in our contract drilling business. During the six months ended March 31, 2016, approximately 81.7 percent of operating revenues from international locations were from operations in South America. All of the South American operating revenues were from Argentina, Colombia and Ecuador. The future occurrence of one or more international events arising from the types of risks described above could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   43      Table of Contents   Other risk factors   Reference is made to the risk factors pertaining to the Company’s securities portfolio and current backlog of contract drilling revenue in Item 1A of Part 1 of the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2015. In order to update these risk factors for developments that have occurred during the first six months of fiscal 2016, the risk factors are hereby amended and updated by reference to, and incorporation herein of Note 4 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements contained in Item 1 of Part I hereof (regarding our securities portfolio) and Liquidity and Capital Resources — Backlog contained in Item 2 of Part I hereof.   Except as discussed above for the six months ended March 31, 2016, there have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in Item 1A of Part 1 in our Form 10-K.   44      Table of Contents   ITEM 6. EXHIBITS