Item 1A. Risk Factors” of our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, regarding fixed term contract risk.   Capital Resources   During the three months ended December 31, 2016, we completed one new FlexRig. The new FlexRig is committed to work for an exploration and production company under a fixed-term contract, performing drilling services on a daywork contract basis.   Our capital spending estimate for fiscal 2017 is expected to be approximately $350 million. The actual spending level may vary depending primarily on actual maintenance capital requirements and market driven special projects related to the further enhancement of our existing fleet. Capital expenditures were $82.1 million and $114.5 million for the first three months of fiscal 2017 and 2016, respectively.   There were no other significant changes in our financial position since September 30, 2016.   MATERIAL COMMITMENTS   Material commitments as reported in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K have not changed significantly at December 31, 2016.   CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES   Our accounting policies and estimates that are critical or the most important to understand our financial condition and results of operations, and that require management to make the most difficult judgments, are described in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. There have been no material changes in these critical accounting policies and estimates.   RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS   In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which supersedes virtually all existing revenue recognition guidance. In May 2016, accounting guidance was issued to clarify the not yet effective revenue recognition guidance issued in May 2014. This additional guidance does not change the core principle of the revenue recognition guidance issued by the FASB in May 2014. Rather, it provides clarification of accounting for collections of sales taxes as well as recognition of revenue (i) associated with contract modifications, (ii) for noncash consideration, and (iii) based on the collectability of the consideration from the customer. The ASU provides for full retrospective, modified retrospective, or use of the cumulative effect method during the period of adoption. We have not yet determined which adoption method we will employ. In July 2015, the FASB extended the effective date of this standard to interim and annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2017. We are currently evaluating the potential effects of the adoption of this update on our financial statements.   In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements — Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity’s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern. The guidance provides principles and definitions for management that are intended to reduce diversity in the timing and content of disclosures provided in footnotes. Under    33      Table of Contents   the standard, management is required to evaluate for each annual and interim reporting period whether it is probable that the entity will not be able to meet its obligations as they become due within one year after the date that financial statements are issued (or are available to be issued, where applicable). The standard is effective for annual periods ending after December 15, 2016. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have an impact on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.   In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, Inventory (Topic 330): Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory. This update simplifies the subsequent measurement of inventory. It replaces the current lower of cost or market test with the lower of cost or net realizable value test. Net realizable value is defined as the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. The new standard should be applied prospectively and is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016 and interim periods within those annual periods, with early adoption permitted. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our financial statements.   In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Financial Instruments — Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. The standard requires entities to measure equity investments that do not result in consolidation and are not accounted for under the equity method at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value in net income. The provisions of ASU No. 2016-01 are effective for interim and annual periods starting after December 15, 2017. At adoption, a cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning retained earnings will be recorded. We will adopt this standard on October 1, 2018. Subsequent to adoption, changes in the fair value of our available-for-sale investments will be recognized in net income and the effect will be subject to stock market fluctuations.   In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). ASU No. 2016-02 will require organizations that lease assets — referred to as “lessees” — to recognize on the balance sheet the assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by those leases. Under ASU No. 2016-02, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than 12 months. Lessor accounting remains substantially similar to current GAAP. In addition, disclosures of leasing activities are to be expanded to include qualitative along with specific quantitative information. For public entities, ASU No. 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. ASU No. 2016-02 mandates a modified retrospective transition method. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements.   In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation—Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. ASU No. 2016-09 simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. For public entities, ASU No. 2016-09 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements.   In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses. The ASU sets forth a “current expected credit loss” (CECL) model which requires companies to measure all expected credit losses for financial instruments held at the reporting date based on historical experience, current conditions and reasonable supportable forecasts. This replaces the existing incurred loss model and is applicable to the measurement of credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost and applies to some off-balance sheet credit exposures. This standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019. We are currently assessing the impact this standard will have on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures.   In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments (a consensus of the Emerging Issues Task Force). The ASU is intended to reduce diversity in practice in presentation and classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments by providing guidance on eight specific cash flow issues. The ASU is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and early adoption is permitted, including adoption during an interim period. We are currently assessing the impact this standard will have on our consolidated statement of cash flows.   34      Table of Contents   ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   For a description of our market risks, see · Note 4 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements contained in Item 1 of Part I hereof with regard to equity price risk which is incorporated herein by reference; · “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 23, 2016; · Note 8 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements contained in Item 1 of Part I hereof with regard to interest rate risk which is incorporated herein by reference; · Note 14 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements contained in Item 1 of Part I hereof with regard to foreign currency exchange rate risk which is incorporated herein by reference; and · Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part II hereof with regard to commodity price risk and foreign currency exchange risk which is incorporated herein by reference.   ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   As of the end of the period covered by this report, an evaluation was performed with the participation of our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based on that evaluation, our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2016 at ensuring that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. There have been no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting that occurred during the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting.   35      Table of Contents   PART II. OTHER INFORMATION   ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   Investigation by the U.S. Attorney. On November 8, 2013, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana approved the previously disclosed October 30, 2013 plea agreement between our wholly owned subsidiary, Helmerich & Payne International Drilling Co. (“HPIDC”), and the United States Department of Justice, United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Louisiana (“DOJ”). The court’s approval of the plea agreement resolved the DOJ’s investigation into certain choke manifold testing irregularities that occurred in 2010 at one of HPIDC’s offshore platform rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. We also engaged in discussions with the Inspector General’s office of the Department of the Interior (“DOI”) regarding the same events that were the subject of the DOJ’s investigation. Although we do not presently anticipate any further action by the DOI in this matter, we can provide no assurance as to the timing or eventual outcome of the DOI’s consideration of the matter.   Venezuela Expropriation. Our wholly-owned subsidiaries, HPIDC and Helmerich & Payne de Venezuela, C.A. filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia on September 23, 2011 against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A. and PDVSA Petroleo, S.A. We are seeking damages for the taking of our Venezuelan drilling business in violation of international law and for breach of contract. While there exists the possibility of realizing a recovery, we are currently unable to determine the timing or amounts we may receive, if any, or the likelihood of recovery.   Keel Litigation. On or about April 28, 2015, Joshua Keel (“Keel”), an employee of HPIDC, filed a petition in the 152nd Judicial Court for Harris County, Texas (Cause No. 2015-24531) against us, our customer and several subcontractors of our customer. The suit arose from injuries Keel sustained in an accident that occurred while he was working on HPIDC Rig 223 in New Mexico in July of 2014. Keel alleged that the defendants were negligent and negligent per se, acted recklessly, intentionally, and/or with an utterly wanton disregard for the rights and safety of the plaintiff and sought damages well in excess of $100 million. Pursuant to the terms of the drilling contract between HPIDC and its customer, HPIDC indemnified most of the co-defendants in the lawsuit. On September 14, 2016, the parties in the Keel litigation entered into a global settlement agreement, which was approved by the court on October 14, 2016. The total settlement amount of $72 million, accrued at September 30, 2016, was paid by the Company and its insurers on behalf of all defendants in December 2016, pursuant to industry standard contractual indemnification obligations.   ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   Our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, which is significantly impacted by the volatility of oil and natural gas prices and other factors.   Our business depends on the conditions of the land and offshore oil and natural gas industry. Demand for our services depends on oil and natural gas industry exploration and production activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. Oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations regarding potential changes to these prices, significantly affect oil and natural gas industry activity.   In June 2014, oil prices reached over $106 per barrel and then began to decline significantly during the second half of 2014 and continued to decline in 2015 closing below $40 per barrel by December 31, 2015. During early 2016, oil prices dropped below $30 per barrel and many of our customers announced significant reductions in their 2016 capital spending budgets. The severe decline in oil prices led to a significant decline in our active rig fleet. For example, at December 31, 2014, 294 out of an available 337 land rigs were working in the U.S. Land segment. In contrast, at June 30, 2016, 89 out of an available 348 land rigs were working in the U.S. Land segment. However, during the second half of 2016, oil prices increased (but remained below $55 per barrel), the U.S. land active rig count increased and our customers began increasing their drilling budgets. At September 30, 2016, 95 out of an available 348 land rigs were contracted in the U.S. Land segment. Due to the gradual rebound in oil prices in calendar 2016 as noted above, we had 127 out of an available 350 land rigs contracted in the U.S. Land segment at December 31, 2016. At January 26, 2017, 140 rigs were contracted in the U.S. Land segment. In the event oil prices drop again and remain depressed for a sustained period, our U.S. Land, International Land and Offshore segments may again experience significant declines in both drilling activity and spot dayrate pricing which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   Oil and natural gas prices are impacted by many factors beyond our control, including:   · the demand for oil and natural gas; · the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; · the worldwide economy; · expectations about future oil and natural gas prices;   36      Table of Contents   · the desire and ability of The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to set and maintain production levels and pricing; · the level of production by OPEC and non-OPEC countries; · the continued development of shale plays which may influence worldwide supply and prices; · domestic and international tax policies; · political and military conflicts in oil producing regions or other geographical areas or acts of terrorism in the U.S. or elsewhere; · technological advances; · the development and exploitation of alternative fuels; · legal and other limitations or restrictions on exportation and/or importation of oil and natural gas; · local and international political, economic and weather conditions; and · the environmental and other laws and governmental regulations regarding exploration and development of oil and natural gas reserves.   The level of land and offshore exploration, development and production activity and the price for oil and natural gas is volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Higher oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily translate into increased activity because demand for our services is typically driven by our customer’s expectations of future commodity prices. However, a sustained decline in worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or prolonged low oil or natural gas prices would likely result in reduced exploration and development of land and offshore areas and a decline in the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   We are subject to the political, economic and social instability risks and local laws associated with doing business in certain foreign countries.   We currently have operations in South America and the Middle East. In the future, we may further expand the geographic reach of our operations. As a result, we are exposed to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered in U.S. operations, including increased risks of social unrest, strikes, terrorism, war, kidnapping of employees, nationalization, forced negotiation or modification of contracts, difficulty resolving disputes and enforcing contract provisions, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of oil and gas exploration and drilling rights, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions and restrictions on repatriation of income and capital, currency rate fluctuations, increased governmental ownership and regulation of the economy and industry in the markets in which we operate, economic and financial instability of national oil companies, and restrictive governmental regulation, bureaucratic delays and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted.   South American countries, in particular, have historically experienced uneven periods of economic growth, as well as recession, periods of high inflation and general economic and political instability. From time to time these risks have impacted our business. For example, on June 30, 2010, the Venezuelan government expropriated 11 rigs and associated real and personal property owned by our Venezuelan subsidiary. Prior thereto, we also experienced currency devaluation losses in Venezuela and difficulty repatriating U.S. dollars to the United States. Today, our contracts for work in foreign countries generally provide for payment in U.S. dollars. However, in Argentina we are paid in Argentine pesos. The Argentine branch of one of our second-tier subsidiaries then remits U.S. dollars to its U.S. parent by converting the Argentine pesos into U.S. dollars through the Argentine Foreign Exchange Market and repatriating the U.S. dollars. In the future, other contracts or applicable law may require payments to be made in foreign currencies. As such, there can be no assurance that we will not experience in Argentina or elsewhere a devaluation of foreign currency, foreign exchange restrictions or other difficulties repatriating U.S. dollars even if we are able to negotiate contract provisions designed to mitigate such risks.   In December 2015, the Argentine peso experienced a sharp devaluation resulting in an aggregate foreign currency loss of $8.5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2015. Subsequent to the sharp devaluation, the Argentine peso significantly stabilized and the Argentine Foreign Exchange Market controls now places fewer restrictions on repatriating U.S. dollars. For the three months ended December 31, 2016, we experienced aggregate foreign currency losses of $1.4 million. However, in the future, other contracts or applicable law may require payments to be made in foreign currencies. As such, there can be no assurance that we will not experience in Argentina or elsewhere a devaluation of foreign currency, foreign exchange restrictions or other difficulties repatriating U.S. dollars even if we are able to negotiate contract provisions designed to mitigate such risks. In the event of future payments in foreign currencies and an inability to timely exchange foreign currencies for U.S. dollars, we may incur currency devaluation losses which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   Additionally, there can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws, regulations and administrative requirements or the interpretation thereof which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations or on our ability to continue   37      Table of Contents   operations in certain areas. Because of the impact of local laws, our future operations in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities (including joint ventures) in which we hold only a minority interest or pursuant to arrangements under which we conduct operations under contract to local entities. While we believe that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on our operations or revenues, there can be no assurance that we will in all cases be able to structure or restructure our operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms we find acceptable.   Although we attempt to minimize the potential impact of such risks by operating in more than one geographical area, during the three months ended December 31, 2016, approximately 18.5 percent of our consolidated operating revenues were generated from the international contract drilling business. During the three months ended December 31, 2016, approximately 84.5 percent of the international operating revenues were from operations in South America. Substantially all of the South American operating revenues were from Argentina and Colombia. The future occurrence of one or more international events arising from the types of risks described above could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation.   Other risk factors   Reference is made to the risk factors pertaining to the Company’s securities portfolio and current backlog of contract drilling revenue in Item 1A of Part 1 of the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2016. In order to update these risk factors for developments that have occurred during the first three months of fiscal 2017, the risk factors are hereby amended and updated by reference to, and incorporation herein of Note 4 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements contained in Item 1 of Part I hereof (regarding our securities portfolio) and Liquidity and Capital Resources — Backlog contained in Item 2 of Part I hereof.   Except as discussed above for the three months ended December 31, 2016, there have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in Item 1A of Part 1 in our Form 10-K.   38      Table of Contents   ITEM 6. EXHIBITS