Item 1A Risk Factors  The discussion of our business and operations should be read together with the risk factors contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, which was filed with the SEC and describes the various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. At March 31, 2010, there have been no material changes to the risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2009 except for the following:  In March 2010, the President signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “PPACA”), which makes changes that are expected to impact the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. One of the principal aims of the PPACA as currently enacted is to expand health insurance coverage to approximately 32 million Americans who are currently uninsured. We cannot predict at this time the impact of these coverage expansions, if any, on the sales of our products.  The PPACA also contains a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions among other things. This includes new fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. Beginning in 2013, with limited exceptions, entities that manufacture, produce or import medical devices will be required to pay a deductible excise tax in an amount equal to 2.3 percent of the price for which such devices are sold in the United States. Though there are some exceptions to the excise tax, this excise tax does apply to all of the Company’s products.  In addition to PPACA discussed above, the effect of which cannot presently be fully quantified given its recent enactment, various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict whether future healthcare initiatives will be implemented at the federal or state level or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us. The taxes imposed by the new federal legislation and, the expansion in the federal government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry and the increased funding and focus on comparative clinical effectiveness research that compares and evaluates the risks and benefits, clinical outcomes, effectiveness and appropriateness of products may result in decreased profits to us, lower reimbursements by payors for our products, and reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which may adversely affect. The PPACA as well as other state and/or federal healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Failure to comply with anti-kickback and fraud regulations could result in substantial penalties and changes in our business operations. In particular, the federal Anti-Kickback Law prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, recommending or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The U.S. government has interpreted this law broadly to apply to the marketing and sales activities of manufacturers and distributors like us.    - 42 -    Table of Contents       PART II - OTHER INFORMATION   Items 1-6     RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES      Item 1A Risk Factors, Continued    The recently enacted PPACA, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. Many states and other governments have adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Law. We are also subject to other federal and state fraud laws applicable to payment from any third party payer. These laws prohibit persons from knowingly and willfully filing false claims or executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private third party payers. These laws may apply to manufacturers and distributors who provide information on coverage, coding, and reimbursement of their products to persons who do bill third party payers. Any violation of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal penalties (including fines), increased legal expenses and exclusions from governmental reimbursement programs, all of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial conditions and results of operations.  The PPACA also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device and drug manufacturers for any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective March 30, 2013. Such information will be made publicly available in a searchable format beginning September 30, 2013. In addition, device and drug manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for “knowing failures”), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported.      Item 2 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds