Item 1A Risk Factors  The discussion of our business and operations should be read together with the risk factors contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, which was filed with the SEC and describes the various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. At March 31, 2011, there have been no material changes to the risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2010, except for the following:  Health care reform, including recently enacted United States legislation, may have a material adverse effect on our industry and our results of operations. In March 2010, the President signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “PPACA”), which makes changes that are expected to impact the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. One of the principal aims of the PPACA as currently enacted is to expand health insurance coverage to approximately 32 million Americans who are currently uninsured. We cannot predict the impact of these coverage expansions, if any, on the sales of our products.  The PPACA also contains a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions among other things. This includes new fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. Beginning in 2013, with limited exceptions, entities that manufacture, produce or import medical devices will be required to pay a deductible excise tax in an amount equal to 2.3 percent of the price for which such devices are sold in the United States. Though there are some exceptions to the excise tax, this excise tax does apply to all of the Company’s products. The PPACA also includes, among other things, the expansion of round 2 of competitive bidding to a total of 91 collective bargaining plans, and by 2016, the process must be nationalized or prices in non-competitive bidding areas must be adjusted to match competitive bidding prices; and the establishment of a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research.  Moreover, in January 2011, the FDA announced twenty-five specific action items it intends to take with respect to the 510(k) process. FDA issued its recommendations and proposed action items in response to concerns from both within and outside of FDA about the 510(k) program. Although FDA has not detailed the specific modifications or clarifications that the Agency intends to make to its guidances, policies, and regulations pertaining to the review and regulation of devices such as ours which seek and receive marketing clearance through the 510(k) process, the FDA’s announced action items signal that additional regulatory requirements are likely. In particular, the FDA intends to issue a variety of draft guidances and regulations over the coming months which would, among other things, clarify when changes to a cleared medical device warrant a new 510(k) and which modifications would be eligible for a Special 510(k), establish a Unique Device Identification System, and clarify the FDA’s use and application of several key terms in the 510(k) review process. These reforms, when implemented, could impose additional regulatory requirements upon us which could delay our ability to obtain new clearances, increase the costs of compliance, or restrict our ability to maintain our current clearances.   - 39 -    Table of Contents       PART II - OTHER INFORMATION   ITEMS 1-6     RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES    Item 1A Risk Factors, Continued    Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level in the United States. We cannot predict whether future healthcare initiatives will be implemented at the federal or state level or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us. The taxes imposed by the new federal legislation and, the expansion in the federal government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry and the increased funding and focus on comparative clinical effectiveness research that compares and evaluates the risks and benefits, clinical outcomes, effectiveness and appropriateness of products may result in decreased profits to us, lower reimbursements by payors for our products, and reduced medical procedure volumes. A number of states have challenged the constitutionality of certain provisions of PPACA, and many of these challenges are still pending final adjudication in several jurisdictions. Congress has also proposed a number of legislative initiatives, including possible repeal of PPACA. At this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to PPACA, whether to certain provisions or its entirety. The PPACA as well as other state and/or federal healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.      Item 2 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds