Item 1A Risk Factors  The discussion of our business and operations should be read together with the risk factors contained in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015, which was filed with the SEC and describes the various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. As of December 31, 2015, there have been no material changes to the risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2015 with the exception of the following:  Laws regulating consumer contacts could adversely affect our business operations or create liabilities. Our business activities include contacts with consumers in different parts of the world. Certain laws, such as the US Telephone Consumer Protection Act, regulate telemarketing practices and certain automated outbound contacts with consumers, such as phone calls, texts or emails. Our use of outbound contacts may be restricted by existing laws, or by laws, regulations, or regulatory decisions that may be adopted in the future. If we are found to have violated these laws or regulations, we may be subjected to substantial fines, penalties, or liabilities to consumers.  Our products are the subject of clinical trials conducted by us, our competitors, or other third parties, the results of which may be unfavorable, or perceived as unfavorable, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for new products and new indications for existing products, or for other reasons, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations, and trial endpoints. We, our competitors, or other third parties may also conduct clinical trials involving our commercially marketed products. The results of clinical trials may be unfavorable or inconsistent with previous findings, or could identify safety signals associated with our products. For example, on May 13, 2015, we announced the preliminary analysis of the data from the SERVE-HF clinical trial, which was designed to assess whether the treatment of moderate to severe predominant central sleep apnea with Adaptive Servo-Ventilation (ASV) therapy could reduce mortality and morbidity in patients with symptomatic chronic heart failure. The preliminary headline results showed no significant difference with respect to all-cause mortality and hospitalization. However, the analysis of the data identified a statistically significant, 2.5 percent absolute, increased risk of cardiovascular    26    Table of Contents       PART II – OTHER INFORMATION   Item 1-6   RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES     mortality for those patients in the trial who received ASV therapy with moderate to severe predominant central sleep apnea and symptomatic chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. We are working with global regulatory authorities to revise the labels and instructions for use for ResMed ASV devices as well as informing healthcare providers, physicians, and patients of the cardiovascular safety signal observed in SERVE-HF. Current or future clinical trials may not meet primary endpoints, may reveal disadvantages of our products and solutions for various markets we address, or could generate unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data. Clinical data, or the market’s or regulatory bodies’ perception of the clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product clearances or approvals, and our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate. Moreover, if these clinical trials identify serious safety issues associated with our marketed products, potentially adverse consequences could result, including that regulatory authorities could withdraw clearances or approvals of our products, we could be required to halt the marketing and sales of our products or recall our products, we could be required to update our product labeling with additional warnings, we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients, and our reputation may suffer. Any of these could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.      Item 2 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds