ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSInformation regarding risk factors appears in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Information Relating to Forward-Looking Statements,” in Part I — Item 2 of this Form 10-Q and in Part I — Item 1A of Danaher’s 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K. There were no material changes during the three months ended September 26, 2014 to the risk factors described in Danaher's 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K, except for the additional risk factor set forth below:We are pursuing a plan to distribute ownership of our Communications business to Danaher shareholders and merge the business into a subsidiary of NetScout in a tax-free transaction. The proposed transaction may not be completed on the currently contemplated timeline or at all and may not achieve the intended benefits.On October 13, 2014, Danaher announced plans to distribute ownership of its Communications business to Danaher shareholders in either a spin-off or split-off transaction and signed a definitive agreement to merge the business into a subsidiary of NetScout. Both the distribution and merger are expected to qualify as tax-free transactions to Danaher and its shareholders, except to the extent that cash is paid to Danaher stockholders in lieu of fractional shares. Unanticipated developments, including delays in obtaining or satisfying (or failure to obtain or satisfy) tax rulings, regulatory approvals, NetScout shareholder approval and other conditions to closing, and challenges in establishing infrastructure or processes, could delay or prevent the proposed transaction or cause the proposed transaction to occur on terms or conditions that are less favorable and/or different than expected. Even if the transaction is completed, some or all of the anticipated value and benefits therefrom may not be achieved. Expenses incurred to accomplish the proposed transaction may be significantly higher than what we currently anticipate. Executing the proposed transaction also requires significant time and attention from 37Table of Contentsmanagement, which could distract them from other tasks in operating our business. Following the proposed separation and merger, the combined value of the common stock of Danaher and the shares of common stock of NetScout issued as consideration for our Communications business may not be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the proposed transaction not occurred.ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS