ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the risks identified below, information regarding risk factors can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Information Related to Forward-Looking Statements,” in Part I—Item 2 of this Form 10-Q and in Part I—Item 1A of Danaher’s 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other than as set forth below, there were no material changes during the quarter ended July 1, 2016 to the risk factors reported in the Company’s 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K.We could incur significant liability if the distribution of Fortive common stock to our stockholders is determined to be a taxable transaction.We have received an opinion from outside tax counsel to the effect that the separation and distribution of Fortive qualifies as a transaction that is described in Sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code. The opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Fortive and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, our stockholders and we may not be able to rely on the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel we have received, the IRS could determine on audit that the separation is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion. If the Separation is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.Potential indemnification liabilities to Fortive pursuant to the separation agreement could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We entered into a separation and distribution agreement and related agreements with Fortive to govern the Separation and the relationship between the two companies going forward. These agreements provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations of each party and could lead to disputes between us. If we are required to indemnify Fortive under the circumstances set forth in these agreements, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. In addition, with respect to the liabilities for which Fortive has agreed to indemnify us under these agreements, there can be no assurance that the indemnity rights we have against Fortive will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of the liabilities, or that Fortive will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Each of these risks could negatively affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.The results of the United Kingdom’s (“UK”) European Union (“EU”) membership referendum could adversely affect customer demand, our relationships with customers and suppliers and our business and financial statements.The results of the UK’s EU membership referendum, advising for the exit of the UK from the EU, has caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in global stock markets, currency exchange rate fluctuations and global economic uncertainty, which could adversely affect customer demand, our relationships with customers and suppliers and our business and financial statements.ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS