Item 1A. Risk Factors    Information regarding risk factors appears in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, which was filed with the SEC on February 17, 2011. There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in that Annual Report on Form 10-K.   SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS   This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and, in particular, our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Part I—Item 2, contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding:    •our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings and submissions for INCIVEK, KALYDECO (VX-770), VX-222, VX-809, VX-509, VX-765, VX-661, VX-787, ALS-2158 and ALS-2200;   •our ability to continue successfully marketing INCIVEK;   •our expectations regarding the timing and structure of clinical trials of our drug and drug candidates, including telaprevir, KALYDECO (VX-770), VX-222, VX-509, VX-765, VX-661, VX-787, ALS-2158 and ALS-2200 and combinations of telaprevir with VX-222 and KALYDECO (VX-770) with VX-809 or VX-661, and the timing of our receipt of data from our clinical trials;   •expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, costs and expenses and other gains and losses, including those related to future product revenues and royalty revenues from sales of telaprevir, to the intangible assets associated with the ViroChem acquisition and the Alios collaboration, to gains (losses) with respect to the noncontrolling interest (Alios) and to the liabilities we recorded in connection with the September 2009 financial transactions;   •the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials and the ability to use that data to support regulatory filings;   •our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment;   •the focus of our drug development efforts and our financial and management resources and our plan to continue investing in our research and development programs and to develop and commercialize selected drug candidates that emerge from those programs, alone or with third-party collaborators;   •the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships;   •our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and significant unmet medical needs;   •statements regarding our leases of buildings to be built in Boston, Massachusetts;   •our estimates regarding obligations associated with a lease of a facility in Kendall Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts; and   •our liquidity and our expectations regarding the possibility of raising additional capital.   55      Table of Contents  Without limiting the foregoing, the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "expects" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in our discussion in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from expected results. We also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, which was filed with the SEC on February 17, 2011. These are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. Other factors besides those listed could also adversely affect us. In addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements.       Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds