Item 1A. Risk Factors    Information regarding risk factors appears in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which was filed with the SEC on February 22, 2012. There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in that Annual Report on Form 10-K, except:   We are planning to accelerate our development program for VX-809 in combination with KALYDECO, based primarily on interim data from a portion of the patients enrolled in Part 2 of a Phase 2 clinical trial in which patients received VX-809 and KALYDECO over a short duration. If final data from Part 2 of this clinical trial are less favorable than the interim data, or if we are unable to successfully develop VX-809 in combination with KALYDECO or experience delays in doing so, our business could be materially harmed and the trading price of our common stock could decline.   In May 2012, we disclosed information about an interim analysis of data from Part 2 of an ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial of VX-809 and KALYDECO. We conducted the planned interim analysis after approximately half of the 108 patients enrolled in Part 2 of this clinical trial had completed all 56 days of treatment. Pooled data from the 37 patients with CF who have two copies (homozygous) of the F508del mutation in the CFTR gene and who had completed all 56 days of treatment demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in lung function (absolute change in percent predicted FEV1) across the combined homozygous treatment groups relative to baseline compared to the 11 patients with one or two copies of the F508del mutation who received placebo. Of those who received VX-809 and KALYDECO, approximately 46 percent (17/37) experienced an absolute improvement from baseline to Day 56 in lung function of 5 percentage points or more, and approximately 30 percent (11/37) experienced an absolute improvement from baseline to Day 56 of 10 percentage points or more. Evaluation of the 21 patients with one copy (heterozygous) of the F508del mutation in the CFTR gene is ongoing, but at the time of the announced interim analysis, not enough heterozygous patients had completed the clinical trial to draw conclusions. One of the two primary endpoints in Part 2 of this clinical trial is change in sweat chloride levels from Day 28 to Day 56. In the interim analysis, we observed reductions in sweat chloride levels between Day 28 and Day 56 in homozygous patients treated with VX-809 and KALYDECO. At the time of the interim analysis, these reductions were not statistically significant.   This clinical trial is ongoing and we expect that complete data, including statistical analyses for all patient groups, will be available in mid-2012. We plan to start a pivotal clinical trial of VX-809 and KALYDECO in people with two copies of the F508del mutation, subject to the final results from this Phase 2 clinical trial and discussions with regulatory agencies. The complete data will be included in the final clinical trial analysis and will be used to determine next steps for the development of VX-809 and KALYDECO in heterozygous F508del patients as well as homozygous F508del patients.   Our development program for the combination of VX-809 and KALYDECO is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the risks that:   •final outcomes of the ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial or future clinical trials of the combination of VX-809 and KALYDECO may be less favorable than the interim analysis that we reported in May 2012 or may not be favorable at all;  •the data we expect from this clinical trial in mid-2012 evaluating the combination of VX-809 and KALYDECO as a potential treatment for heterozygous F508del patients may not be favorable or may be less favorable than data from homozygous F508del patients; and   •the final data and/or discussions with regulatory agencies regarding the scope and design of future clinical trials may result in additional clinical trials needing to be conducted before we can initiate pivotal clinical trials to evaluate VX-809 in combination with KALYDECO in homozygous F508del patients.   45      Table of Contents      Even if final data from Part 2 of this Phase 2 clinical trial and discussions with regulatory agencies permit us to promptly initiate the planned pivotal clinical trial in homozygous F508del patients, we will need to show that the combination of VX-809 and KALYDECO is safe and effective in a significantly larger number of patients than are involved in the ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial, over significantly longer dosing periods. If we are unable to show the safety and efficacy of the combination of VX-809 and KALYDECO, or experience delays in doing so, our business could be materially harmed.   SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS   This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and, in particular, our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Part I—Item 2, contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding:   •expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, costs and expenses and other gains and losses, including those related to product revenues from sales of INCIVEK and KALYDECO and royalty revenues from sales of INCIVO and to the intangible assets associated with the ViroChem acquisition and the Alios collaboration;  •our expectations regarding development timelines and regulatory authority filings and submissions for VX-222, ALS-2158, ALS-2200, VX-809, VX-661, VX-509 and VX-787;  •our plan to initiate a pivotal clinical trial of VX-809 in combination with KALYDECO;   •our ability to successfully market INCIVEK and/or KALYDECO or any of our drug candidates if we obtain regulatory approval;   •our expectations regarding the timing and structure of clinical trials of our drugs and drug candidates, including INCIVEK, KALYDECO, VX-222, ALS-2158, ALS-2200, VX-809, VX-661, VX-509 and VX-787, and the expected timing of our receipt of data from our and our collaborators' ongoing and planned clinical trials;  •the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials and the ability to use that data to support regulatory filings, as well as the expected timing of such regulatory filings and resulting potential approvals;  •our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment;  •the focus of our drug development efforts and our financial and management resources and our plan to continue investing in our diversified research and development programs and to develop and commercialize selected drug candidates that emerge from those programs, alone or with third-party collaborators;   •the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships;   •potential business development activities;  •our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and significant unmet medical needs;  •our estimates regarding obligations associated with a lease of a facility in Kendall Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts; and   •our liquidity and our expectations regarding the possibility of raising additional capital.   46      Table of Contents  Without limiting the foregoing, the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "expects" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in our discussion in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from expected results. We also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which was filed with the SEC on February 22, 2012, and updated and supplemented by "Part II—Item 1A—Risk Factors" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. Other factors besides those listed could also adversely affect us. In addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements.       Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds