Item 1A. Risk Factors    Information regarding risk factors appears in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which was filed with the SEC on February 22, 2012 as supplemented by Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, which was filed with the SEC on May 10, 2012 and Item 1A of our Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, which was filed with the SEC on August 8, 2012. There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in that Annual Report on Form 10-K as supplemented by our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2012 and June 30, 2012 except:   We could be negatively affected by securities class action complaints.   On September 6, 2012, a purported securities class action lawsuit was commenced in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts under the caption City of Bristol Pension Fund v. Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, et al., naming as defendants us and certain of our officers and directors. The lawsuit alleges that we made material misrepresentations and/or omissions of material fact in our public disclosures during the period from May 7, 2012 through June 28, 2012, all in violation of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. The plaintiffs seek unspecified damages on behalf of the putative class, unspecified injunctive relief and an award of costs and expenses, including attorney's fees. We believe that this action is without merit and intend to defend it vigorously. This action will take time and money to defend and may distract us from more productive activities. No assurance can be provided that we will be successful in defending this claim or that insurance proceeds will be sufficient to cover any liability under such claims.   SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS   This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and, in particular, our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Part I—Item 2, contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding:   •expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, costs and expenses and other gains and losses, including those related to product revenues from sales of INCIVEK and KALYDECO and royalty revenues from sales of INCIVO and to the intangible assets associated with the ViroChem acquisition and the Alios collaboration;  •our expectations regarding development timelines and regulatory authority filings and submissions for telaprevir, VX-222, VX-135, ivacaftor, VX-809, VX-661, VX-509 and VX-787;   49      Table of Contents   •our plan to initiate a pivotal program to evaluate VX-809 in combination with ivacaftor and our plans to intiate clinical trials of VX-135 (including in combination with GSK2336805, TMC435, ribavirin and telaprevir).  •our ability to successfully market INCIVEK and/or KALYDECO or any of our drug candidates if we obtain regulatory approval;   •our expectations regarding the timing and structure of clinical trials of our drugs and drug candidates, including telaprevir, ivacaftor, VX-222, VX-135, VX-809, VX-661, VX-509 and VX-787, and the expected timing of our receipt of data from our and our collaborators' ongoing and planned clinical trials;  •the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials and the ability to use that data to support regulatory filings, as well as the expected timing of such regulatory filings and resulting potential approvals;  •our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment;  •the focus of our drug development efforts and our financial and management resources and our plan to continue investing in our diversified research and development programs and to develop and commercialize selected drug candidates that emerge from those programs, alone or with third-party collaborators;   •the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships;   •potential business development activities;  •our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and significant unmet medical needs;  •our estimates regarding obligations associated with a lease of a facility in Kendall Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts; and   •our liquidity and our expectations regarding the possibility of raising additional capital.    Without limiting the foregoing, the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "expects" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in our discussion in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from expected results. We also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which was filed with the SEC on February 22, 2012, and updated and supplemented by "Part II—Item 1A—Risk Factors" of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2012 and June 30, 2012 and this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. Other factors besides those listed could also adversely affect us. In addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements.  50      Table of Contents       Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds