Item 1A. Risk FactorsInformation regarding risk factors appears in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, which was filed with the SEC on February 16, 2016. There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in that Annual Report on Form 10-K, except that:Risk Relating to the Referendum of the United Kingdom’s Membership of the European Union.35On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom, or the U.K., held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union, or the E.U., commonly referred to as “Brexit.” As a result of the referendum, it is expected that the British government will begin negotiating the terms of the U.K.’s withdrawal from the E.U. A withdrawal could, among other outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the U.K. and the E.U., undermine bilateral cooperation in key policy areas and significantly disrupt trade between the U.K. and the E.U. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate. Given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade, regulatory and legal implications the withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. would have and how such withdrawal would affect us.The announcement of Brexit caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business. The announcement of Brexit and the withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. may also create global economic uncertainty, which may cause third-party payors, including governmental organizations, to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budgets. Any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.Our indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, and the terms of our credit agreement impose restrictions on our business, reducing our operational flexibility and creating default risks.In October 2016, we entered into a credit agreement providing for a $500 million revolving facility, $300 million of which was drawn at closing. All outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement mature on October 13, 2021.Our indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including increasing our vulnerability to general adverse financial, business, economic and industry conditions, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. The credit agreement requires that we comply with certain financial covenants, including that we maintain (i) subject to certain limited exceptions, a consolidated leverage ratio of 3.00 to 1.00 and (ii) consolidated EBITDA of at least $200 million, in each case to be measured on a quarterly basis. Further, the credit agreement includes negative covenants, subject to exceptions, restricting or limiting our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, engage in certain investment, acquisition and disposition transactions, pay dividends, repurchase capital stock and enter into transactions with affiliates. As a result, we may be restricted from engaging in business activities that may otherwise improve our business. Failure to comply with the covenants could result in an event of default that could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness, which would require us to repay all amounts owing under the credit agreement and/or our capital leases and could have a material adverse effect on our business.Additionally, our obligations under the credit agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries. All obligations under the credit agreement, and the guarantees of those obligations, are secured by substantially all of our assets and the assets of all guarantors (excluding intellectual property, owned and leased real property and certain other excluded property), including the pledge of all or a portion of the equity interests of certain of our subsidiaries. If we fail to satisfy our obligations under the credit agreement or are unable to obtain sufficient funds to make payments, the lenders could foreclose on our pledged collateral.SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSThis Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and, in particular, our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Part I-Item 2, contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding:•our expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, costs and expenses and other gains and losses, including those related to net product revenues from KALYDECO and ORKAMBI;•our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings and submissions for our drug candidates including, ivacaftor, lumacaftor, VX-661, VX-371 (formerly P-1037), VX-152, VX-440, VX-659, VX-970, VX-803, VX-984, VX-150, VX-241 and VX-210, as well as the MAA for ORKAMBI for the 36treatment of patients with CF six to eleven years of age who are homozygous for the F508del mutation in their CFTR gene and the NDA for VX-661 in combination with ivacaftor;•our expectations regarding planned clinical trials for next-generation correctors based upon pre-clinical data;•our ability to successfully market KALYDECO and ORKAMBI or any of our other drug candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval;•our expectations regarding the timing and structure of clinical trials of our drugs and drug candidates, including ivacaftor, lumacaftor, VX-661, VX-371 (formerly P-1037), VX-152, VX-440, VX-659, VX-970, VX-803, VX-984, VX-150, VX-241 and VX-210, and the expected timing of our receipt of data from our ongoing and planned clinical trials;•the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials and the ability to use that data to advance compounds, continue development or support regulatory filings;•our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment;•our plan to continue investing in our research and development programs and our strategy to develop our drug candidates, alone or with third party-collaborators;•the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships;•potential business development activities;•potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;•our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and significant unmet medical needs; and•our liquidity and our expectations regarding the possibility of raising additional capital.Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from expected results. We also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, which was filed with the SEC on February 16, 2016. These are factors and uncertainties that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. Other factors and uncertainties besides those listed there could also adversely affect us.Without limiting the foregoing, the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “intends,” “expects” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds