Item 1A. Risk FactorsInformation regarding risk factors appears in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, which was filed with the SEC on February 23, 2017. There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, except that the first four risk factors set forth below shall replace the first three risk factors set forth in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and the fifth risk factor set forth below shall be added as a new risk factor.All of our product revenues and the vast majority of our total revenues are derived from sales of medicines for the treatment of cystic fibrosis. If we are unable to continue to increase revenues from sales of our cystic fibrosis medicines or if we do not meet the expectations of investors or public equity market analysts, our business would be materially harmed and the market price of our common stock would likely decline.Substantially all of our product revenues and the vast majority of our total revenues are derived from the sale of CF medicines. As a result, our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to increase revenues from sales of our CF medicines. In the near term, this will require us to maintain KALYDECO net product revenues and increase ORKAMBI net product revenues. In the medium term, this will require us to obtain approval for, and successfully commercialize, tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor. In the longer term, this will require us to successfully develop, obtain approval for and commercialize at least one triple-combination therapy that will allow us to treat patients who have one copy of the F508del mutation in their CFTR gene and a second mutation in their CFTR gene that results in minimal CFTR function and to improve the treatment options available to patients with CF who are eligible for our current medicines. If we are unable to increase our CF product revenues or if we experience adverse developments with respect to development or commercialization of our CF medicines, our results of operations will be adversely affected and our business will be materially harmed.We are investing significant resources in the development of our next-generation CFTR corrector compounds in triple combinations and if we are unable to show the safety and efficacy of these compounds, experience delays in doing so or are unable to successfully commercialize at least one of these medicines, our business would be materially harmed.We are investing significant resources in the development of our next-generation CFTR corrector compounds, including VX-152, VX-440, VX-659 and VX-445, which we are evaluating as part of triple combination treatment regimens for the treatment of patients with CF. We believe that a significant portion of the long-term value attributed to our company by investors is based on the commercial potential of these triple-combination therapies. In July 2017, we obtained initial positive results from Phase 2 clinical trials of VX-152 and VX-440 and a Phase 1 clinical trial of VX-659. In each case, these clinical trials enrolled a limited number of patients with CF and we expect to receive additional information regarding these compounds in early 2018. Based on these results, we expect to initiate pivotal programs to evaluate one or two of these triple combination regimens in the first half of 2018. In order to ultimately obtain approval for a triple-combination regimen, we will need to demonstrate that the compounds are safe and effective in a significantly larger number of patients than were involved in the clinical trials conducted to date. Initial results from ongoing clinical trials may differ materially from final results from such clinical trials. The results from preclinical and early clinical studies do not always accurately predict results in later, large-scale clinical trials. If the data from our ongoing or planned clinical trials or non-clinical studies of triple combination regimens including our next-generation CFTR compounds are not favorable, the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities may not approve these treatment regimens and/or we may be forced to delay or terminate the development of these treatment regimens, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Even successfully completed large-scale clinical trials may not result in marketable medicines. If a triple combination that includes a next-generation CFTR corrector compounds fails to achieve its primary endpoint in clinical trials, if safety issues arise or if the results from our clinical trials are otherwise inadequate to support regulatory approval of our triple combination therapies, commercialization of that combination regimen could be delayed or halted. 44Even if we gain marketing approval for one or more combination therapies containing a next-generation CFTR corrector compound in a timely manner, we cannot be sure that such combination therapy will be commercially successful. In addition, since we expect that a significant portion of the patients for whom a triple combination treatment regimen would be indicated would also be eligible for our then existing medicines, a portion of the revenues from our triple combination regimens will likely displace revenues from our then marketed products reducing the overall effect of the commercialization of our triple combination regimens on our total revenues.If the anticipated or actual timing of marketing approvals for these compounds, or the market acceptance of these compounds, if approved, including treatment reimbursement levels agreed to by third-party payors, do not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. Our business currently depends heavily on ORKABMI and KALYDECO net product revenues and we expect to continue to depend on these revenues at least until we obtain approval for tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor. Our two marketed medicines are ORKAMBI and KALYDECO, which are approved to treat patients with CF who have specific mutations in their CFTR gene. ORKAMBI and KALYDECO net product revenues represented approximately 52% and 32% of our total revenues in the nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively, and we expect ORKAMBI and KALYDECO net product revenues to represent substantially all of our total revenues for the remainder of 2017. A majority of our net product revenues are from sales of ORKAMBI and most of our ORKAMBI net product revenues have come from the United States. We have recognized limited ex-U.S. net product revenues due to the ongoing reimbursement discussions in many ex-U.S. countries and have experienced challenges in the commercialization of ORKAMBI both in the United States and in ex-U.S. markets. Our ORKAMBI U.S. revenues have been affected by uptake, discontinuations and compliance rates. Our ORKAMBI ex-U.S. revenues have been affected by the same factors as our U.S. ORKAMBI revenues and challenges with respect to obtaining reimbursement for ORKAMBI in ex-U.S. markets. Factors that affect our ORKAMBI net product revenues include:•the rate at which patients initiate treatment of ORKAMBI, the proportion of initiated patients who remain on treatment and the compliance rate for patients who remain on treatment;•the safety and efficacy profile of ORKAMBI;•our ability to obtain reimbursement for ORKAMBI and any changes in reimbursement policies of payors and other third parties; and•legal, administrative, regulatory or legislative developments, including pricing limitations.Since the regulations that govern pricing, coverage and reimbursement for drugs vary widely from country to country, there is no assurance that coverage and reimbursement will be available outside of the United States and, even if it is available, the timing or the level of reimbursement may not be satisfactory. Adverse pricing limitations or a delay in obtaining coverage and reimbursement would decrease our future net product revenues and harm our business.If we continue to experience challenges with the commercialization of ORKAMBI or are unable to sustain KALYDECO net product revenues or if either medicine were to become subject to problems such as safety or efficacy issues, the introduction or greater acceptance of competing products, changes in reimbursement policies of payors and other third parties, or adverse legal, administrative, regulatory or legislative developments, our ability commercialization of our products would be impaired and our stock price would likely decline. Our business depends on the success of tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor, which has not been approved by the FDA or the European Commission. If we are unable to obtain marketing approval or experience material delays in obtaining marketing approval for, or reimbursement arrangements relating to, tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor, our business could be materially harmed.In the first quarter of 2017, we obtained positive results from two Phase 3 clinical trials of tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor that showed statistically significant improvements in lung function in patients with CF 12 years of age and older who have certain mutations in their CFTR gene. Based on these results, we submitted an NDA in the United States and an MAA in Europe for this potential combination regimen. The target date for the FDA to complete its review of the NDA under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act is February 28, 2018. We expect the EMA to complete its review in the second half 45of 2018. Obtaining approval of an NDA or an MAA is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and we may not be successful. Obtaining approval depends on many factors including: •whether or not the FDA and European regulatory authorities determine that the evidence gathered in well-controlled clinical trials, other clinical trials and nonclinical studies demonstrates that the combination regimen is safe; and•whether or not the FDA and European regulatory authorities are satisfied that the manufacturing facilities, processes and controls for the combination are adequate, that the labeling is satisfactory and that plans for post-marketing studies, safety monitoring and risk evaluation and mitigation are sufficient.Obtaining marketing approval for the combination of tezacaftor and ivacaftor in one country or region does not ensure that we will be able to obtain marketing approval in any other country or region. Even if a tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor is approved, the FDA or the European Commission, as the case may be, may limit the indications for which the product may be marketed, require extensive warnings on the product labeling or require expensive and time-consuming clinical trials or reporting as conditions of approval. If we experience material delays in obtaining marketing approval for the combination of tezacaftor and ivacaftor in either the United States or Europe, our future net product revenues and cash flows will be adversely effected. If we do not obtain approval to market the combination of tezacaftor and ivacaftor in the United States or Europe, our business will be materially harmed. Additionally, even if the combination of tezacaftor and ivacaftor receives marketing approval, coverage and reimbursement may not be available and, even if it is available, the level of reimbursement may not be satisfactory. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of VX-561 from Concert Pharmaceuticals, Inc.In July 2017, we acquired certain CF assets from Concert Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Concert, including VX-561, an investigational CFTR potentiator that has the potential to be used as part of future once-daily combination regimens of CFTR modulators that treat the underlying cause of CF. We amended our ongoing Phase 2 clinical trials of VX-445 and VX-659 to include additional cohorts of patients to evaluate these next-generation CFTR corrector compounds in combination with tezacaftor and VX-561. Acquisitions are inherently risky and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such transaction, which involves numerous risks including:•that we fail to successfully develop and/or integrate VX-561 into our pipeline in order to achieve our strategic objectives;•that we receive inadequate or unfavorable data from clinical trials evaluating the VX-561 in combination with other CFTR modulators; and•the potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of VX-561 or any of the other assets acquired from Concert, including but not limited to, problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges with respect to intellectual property, product quality, safety, and other known and unknown liabilities. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSThis Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and, in particular, our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Part I-Item 2, contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding:•our expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, costs and expenses and other gains and losses, including those related to net product revenues from KALYDECO and ORKAMBI;•our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines, timing of our receipt of data from our ongoing and planned clinical trials and regulatory authority filings and submissions for our products and drug candidates, including the NDA and MAA submission for tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor and the ongoing and planned clinical trials to evaluate our next-generation CFTR correctors;•our ability to successfully market KALYDECO and ORKAMBI or any of our other drug candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval;46•the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials and the ability to use that data to advance compounds, continue development or support regulatory filings;•our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment;•our plan to continue investing in our research and development programs and our strategy to develop our drug candidates, alone or with third party-collaborators;•the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships;•potential business development activities;•our post-closing integration of the assets acquired from Concert;•potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;•our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and significant unmet medical needs; and•our liquidity and our expectations regarding the possibility of raising additional capital.Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from expected results. We also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, which was filed with the SEC on February 23, 2017. These are factors and uncertainties that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. Other factors and uncertainties besides those listed there could also adversely affect us.Without limiting the foregoing, the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “intends,” “expects” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds