Item 1A. Risk FactorsThere were no material changes during the period covered in this report to the risk factors previously disclosed in Part I, Item 1A, of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Part II, Item 1A, of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 29, 2017 and the quarter ended March 30, 2018, except as follows:67Potential tariffs or a global trade war could increase the cost of our products.Potential tariffs imposed by the United States and China that include Varian technology could increase the cost of our products. These potential increased costs could adversely impact the competitiveness of our products and our operational results in the future.On July 6, 2018, the Administration imposed 25% tariffs on a variety of imports from China, including Varian radiotherapy systems manufactured in China and certain components we import into the U.S. for our manufacturing and service activities. In addition to conversations with the Administration, we are also participating in the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) process to consider product-specific exclusions from these tariffs. While we are uncertain of the outcome of these exclusion discussions, if we are successful, certain Varian products could be provided retroactive relief from these tariffs to the date of their enactment. The Administration has also proposed two additional lists of products from China on which to impose tariffs; the first of these proposed lists involves 25% tariffs and the second involves 10% tariffs. We expect our imports into the U.S. to be impacted less by these two proposed tariff lists than the tariff list that was already imposed. It is not known if, or when, these subsequent rounds of tariffs would be imposed.China has responded to the new and proposed U.S. tariffs by announcing two lists of products from the U.S. that are or, may in the future, be subject to new tariffs upon import to China. One round of Chinese retaliatory tariffs went into effect on July 6, 2018. Our products are not impacted by these tariffs. Our exports to China are, however, impacted by the second Chinese list, which has not taken effect yet. If either, or both, countries definitively impose additional tariffs on our parts or products, that could increase our costs and/or sales prices, potentially decrease the demand for these products and have a material effect on our business and operational results.Our efforts to integrate acquisitions may not be successful, and this may adversely affect our financial results.As part of our strategy to develop and identify new technologies, products and services, we may continue to acquire new businesses and technologies. Our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and finance. Success of an acquisition may depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired business. If such integration efforts are not successful, the anticipated benefits and synergies of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Our efforts to successfully integrate acquisitions may also result in additional expenses and divert significant amounts of management’s time from other projects.Our failure to manage successfully and coordinate the growth of acquired businesses could also have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, there is no guarantee that some of the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. If our acquisitions do not meet our initial expectations, we may record impairment charges.Factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include:•our ability to retain key employees of the acquired businesses;•the performance of the acquired businesses and their technologies, products or services;•our ability to integrate the operations, financial and other systems of the acquired businesses;•the ability of the combined company to achieve synergies among its constituent companies, such as increasing sales of the combined company’s products and services, achieving expected cost savings and effectively combining technologies to develop new products and services;•any disruption in order fulfillment or loss of sales due to integration processes;•the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of the acquired businesses;•any decrease in customer and distributor loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the product lines and sales and marketing practices of the acquired businesses, including price increases; and•our assumption of known contingent liabilities, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, or unknown liabilities that come to light, in each case to the extent that the realization of such liabilities increases our expenses or adversely affects our business or financial position.68Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds