Item 1A. Risk FactorsThere were no material changes during the period covered in this report to the risk factors previously disclosed in Part I, Item 1A, of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Part II, Item 1A, of our Quarterly Report on Form 10Q for the quarter ended December 29, 2017, except as follows:The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, the enactment of legislation implementing changes in taxation of international business activities, and the adoption of other tax legislation and policies could materially impact our financial position and results of operations. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Act”) is expected to have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations. The Act reduced the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%. This rate reduction requires us to re-measure our net deferred tax assets which were originally recorded assuming a future tax benefit at the 35% rate. We estimate that the total impact of this re-measurement of our net deferred tax assets will be about $46.7 million. The impacts to our three- and six-month periods ended March 30, 2018, were charges to income tax expense of $2.4 million and $40.2 million, respectively. Since we have a September fiscal year end, the change to the lower corporate tax rate will be phased in. As a result of this phase in, the remainder, or about $6.5 million, will be charged to income tax expense over the balance of fiscal year 2018.In addition, as part of the transition to a modified territorial system, the new law imposes a one-time transition tax on the unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. During the three- and six-month periods ended March 30, 2018, we recorded a provisional discrete tax expense of $3.8 million and $173.1 million, respectively, related to the one-time transition tax. We intend to make the election to pay this tax over an eight-year period. The transition to a modified territorial regime and the one-time transition tax on unremitted earnings has also caused us to re-evaluate our intentions with respect to the unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. In the past, we did not accrue U.S. taxes on certain undistributed profits of certain foreign subsidiaries because the earnings were considered to be indefinitely reinvested. In light of the changes to the taxation of foreign earnings in the Act, we no longer consider the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested.The amounts of the tax effects related to the Act described above represent our reasonable estimates. Also, it is expected that the U.S. Treasury will issue regulations and other guidance on the application of certain provisions of the Act, which could cause us to significantly revise the provisional amounts we have recorded.On January 22, 2018, a continuing budget resolution was signed into law that included a provision to extend the moratorium on the 2.3% medical device excise tax for two more years, or until January 1, 2020. This tax has had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our gross margin when the moratorium expires.A significant portion of our earnings is generated from activity outside the United States. As a result, any substantial changes in international policies regarding corporate taxation or legislative initiatives may materially and adversely affect our business, the amount of taxes we are required to pay and our financial condition and results of operations generally.70The proposed acquisition of Sirtex Medical Limited may not be completed within the expected timeframe, or at all, and the failure to complete the acquisition could adversely affect our business.On January 30, 2018, we signed an agreement to acquire Sirtex Medical Limited ("Sirtex"), an Australian company that is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange, for A$28 per share or approximately A$1.6 billion (approximately $1.2 billion as of March 30, 2018). Sirtex is an Australian-based global life sciences company focused on interventional oncology therapies.The transaction has received all necessary regulatory approvals, is subject to the approval of the Sirtex shareholders, the Federal Court of Australia and the satisfaction of other customary closing conditions. There is no guarantee that these conditions will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all. If any of the conditions to the proposed acquisition are not satisfied (or waived by the other party), the acquisition may not be completed. On May 4, 2018, Sirtex received an unsolicited non-binding, indicative and conditional proposal from CDH Investments ("CDH"), a China-based alternative asset manager, for the acquisition of all of the issued shares in Sirtex for A$33.60 per share. The Sirtex board of directors has determined to engage with CDH to further understand the conditions associated with the CDH proposal. As a result the meeting of Sirtex shareholders to approve the acquisition by Varian, which was scheduled to occur on Monday, May 7, 2018 (Sydney time), was adjourned to a time and date to be determined. The Scheme Implementation Deed (the “Agreement”) may be terminated under specified circumstances. Our failure to complete the acquisition could delay our plan to expand into the interventional oncology market and adversely affect our business. We could be required to pay a termination fee up to 1% of the total consideration under certain circumstances as described in the Agreement . In addition, our stock price may also suffer as the failure to consummate the acquisition may result in negative perception in the investment community.Uncertainty associated with the completion of the merger may cause substantial disruptions in our business and Sirtex’s business.Uncertainty associated with the completion of the acquisition may cause substantial disruptions in our business and Sirtex’s business, which could have an adverse effect on Sirtex's results prior to the closing and our financial results after the closing. Among other things, such uncertainty may affect our relationships with customers, potential customers and suppliers and our ability to recruit prospective employees or to retain and motivate existing employees. Sirtex may face similar disruptions to its business, which could adversely impact their financial results prior to closing and over the long term. The adverse effect of such disruptions could be exacerbated by the recently announced delay in the completion of the acquisition or termination of the Agreement.Our efforts to integrate acquisitions may not be successful, and this may adversely impact our profitability and sales growth.As part of our strategy to develop and identify new technologies, products and services, we have made and may continue to acquire new businesses and technologies. Our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and finance. In particular, if our proposed acquisition of Sirtex is completed, success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate the business and operations and fully realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from combining our businesses and Sirtex’s business. If we are not able to achieve these objectives following the acquisition, the anticipated benefits and synergies of the transactions may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Our efforts to successfully integrate acquisitions may result in additional expenses and divert significant amounts of management’s time from other projects.Our failure to manage successfully and coordinate the growth of the acquired companies could also have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, there is no guarantee that some of the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. If our acquisitions do not meet our initial expectations, we may record impairment charges.Factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include:•our ability to retain key employees of the acquired company;•the performance of the acquired business, technology, product or service;•our ability to integrate operations, financial and other systems;71•the ability of the combined company to achieve synergies among its constituent companies, such as increasing sales of the combined company’s products and services, achieving expected cost savings and effectively combining technologies to develop new products and services;•any disruption in order fulfillment or loss of sales due to integration processes;•the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies;•any decrease in customer and distributor loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the acquired companies’ product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases; and•our assumption of known contingent liabilities that are realized, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, or unknown liabilities that come to light, to the extent that the realization of any of these liabilities increases our expenses or adversely affects our business or financial position.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds