Item 1A. Risk FactorsThere were no material changes during the period covered in this report to the risk factors previously disclosed in Part I, Item 1A, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 28, 2018, except as follows:Tariffs or cross-border trade restrictions could increase the cost of our products.On July 6, 2018, the Trump Administration imposed 25% tariffs on a variety of imports from China, including Varian’s radiotherapy systems manufactured in China and certain components imported into the U.S. for our manufacturing and service activities. The Administration subsequently imposed tariffs on two additional lists of products from China; the first of these additional lists involves 25% tariffs and the second list imposes 10% tariffs increasing to 25% on March 2, 2019. We expect our imports into the U.S. to be impacted less by these two additional tariff lists than by the initial tariff list.China responded to the multiple U.S. tariff lists by announcing several lists of products from the U.S. that are subject to additional tariffs upon import to China. The first round of Chinese retaliatory tariffs went into effect on July 6, 2018. Our products are not impacted by these tariffs. Our exports of U.S. manufactured radiotherapy systems to China are impacted by the second Chinese list, implemented on August 23, 2018, which is subject to a 25% tariff. A third group of items, including certain of our manufacturing inputs and services, is subject to 5 to 10% tariffs, which went into effect on September 24, 2018. Any tariffs imposed by the United States and China that include Varian technology could increase the cost of our products and adversely impact the competitiveness of our products and/or our operational results in the future.We are participating in the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (“USTR”) process to consider product-specific exclusions from these tariffs. On December 21, 2018, USTR announced its approval of our request to exclude certain radiotherapy systems manufactured in China, and this decision was later published on December 28, 2018. This exclusion means Varian’s imports of radiotherapy systems from China into the U.S. will not be subject to the China tariffs. While we have been successful in our request to exclude radiotherapy systems there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining an exclusion for our additional requests relating to certain components imported from China nor is there an assurance that the Chinese government will provide reciprocal relief from the retaliatory tariffs. The decision by British voters to exit the European Union may negatively impact our operations.The United Kingdom (“U.K.”) is currently negotiating the terms of its exit from the European Union (“Brexit”) scheduled for March 29, 2019. In November 2018, the U.K. and the European Union agreed upon a draft Withdrawal Agreement that sets out the terms of the U.K.’s departure, including a transition period from March 29, 2019 through December 31, 2020 to allow time for a future trade deal to be agreed. On January 15, 2019, the draft Withdrawal Agreement was rejected by the U.K. Parliament creating significant uncertainty about the terms (and timing) under which the U.K. will leave the European Union.48If the U.K. leaves the European Union with no agreement, it will likely have an adverse impact on labor and trade and will create further short-term currency volatility. In the absence of a future trade deal, the U.K.’s trade with the European Union and the rest of the world would be subject to tariffs and duties set by the World Trade Organization, which could result in higher importation costs for our products. In addition, the movement of goods between the U.K. and the remaining member states of the European Union will be subject to additional inspections and documentation checks, leading to possible delays at ports of entry and departure. Moreover, currency volatility could drive a weaker pound which could result in a decrease in the profitability of our U.K. operations. Any adjustments we make to our business and operations as a result of Brexit could result in significant expense and take significant time to complete.While we have not experienced any material financial impact from Brexit on our U.K. business to date, sales into the U.K. represented approximately 4% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2018 and we cannot predict its future implications. Any impact from Brexit on our business and operations over the long term will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, tax treaties, trade, regulatory, and other negotiations the U.K. conducts.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds