Item 1A. Risk Factors Economic Environment and Capital Markets RisksDifficult Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial ConditionStressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in financial asset classes or various markets can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. Global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, derivative prices and availability, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and deflation and inflation, and government actions taken in response to any of these factors, could all adversely affect our financial condition (including our liquidity and capital levels), our business operations and our ability to receive dividends from our insurance subsidiaries and meet our obligations at MetLife, Inc., by virtue of their impact on levels of economic activity, employment, customer behavior, or mismatched impacts on the value of our assets and our liabilities. Such factors could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, derivative losses, changes in insurance liabilities, impairments, increased valuation allowances, increases in reserves for future policyholder benefits, reduced net investment income and changes in unrealized gain or loss positions.Sustained periods of low interest rates and risk asset returns could reduce income from our investment portfolio, increase our liabilities for claims and future benefits, and increase the cost of risk transfer measures such as hedging, causing our profit margins to erode as a result of reduced income from our investment portfolio and increase in insurance liabilities. In the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as a global credit crisis, a market downturn, or sustained low market returns we could incur significant capital or operating losses due to, among other reasons, losses incurred in our general account and as a result of the impact on us of guarantees, including increases in liabilities, capital maintenance obligations and collateral requirements associated with our affiliated reinsurers and other similar arrangements. Any of these events could also impair our financial strength ratings.The demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected by an economic downturn resulting in higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment, lower consumer spending, elevated incidence of claims, adverse utilization of benefits relative to our best estimate expectations, lapses or surrenders of policies, and policyholders choosing to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Such adverse changes in the economy could negatively affect our earnings and capitalization and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.38Table of ContentsDeclining equity markets could decrease the account value of our variable insurance products and other products issued through separate accounts. Lower interest rates may result in lower returns in fixed income vehicles. Decreases in account values reduce certain fees generated by these products, which could increase the level of insurance liabilities we must carry to support such products issued with any associated guarantees, cause the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (“DAC”) to accelerate, and require us to provide additional funding to our captive reinsurers.See:•“Business — Regulation;”• “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Financial and Economic Environment;”•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment;” and•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — Current Environment.”Interest Rate RiskSome of our products, principally traditional life, universal life, fixed annuities, GICs, funding agreements and structured settlements, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates, including reductions in the difference between short-term and long-term interest rates, could reduce our investment margin or “spread,” which could in turn reduce our net income.In a low interest rate environment, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, which could reduce our investment spread. Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed income securities and commercial, agricultural or residential mortgage loans in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, thereby exacerbating this risk. Although lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in spreads on some products, our ability to lower these rates is limited to the portion of our in-force product portfolio that has adjustable interest crediting rates, and could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. As a result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income and potentially negatively affecting our credit instrument covenants or rating agency assessment of our financial condition. In addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers. This could result in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. A decline in market interest rates could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations. During periods of sustained lower interest rates, our reserves for policy liabilities may not be sufficient to meet future policy obligations and may need to be strengthened. Accordingly, declining and sustained lower interest rates may materially affect our results of operations, financial position, cash flows, and ability to take dividends from operating insurance companies, as well as significantly reduce our profitability. 39Table of ContentsIncreases in interest rates could also negatively affect our profitability. In periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the investments in our general account with higher yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest rate sensitive products competitive. We therefore may have to accept a lower spread and thus lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. In addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. This process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of those investments are adversely affected by the increase in interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. Unanticipated withdrawals, terminations and substantial policy amendments may cause us to accelerate the amortization of DAC and value of business acquired (“VOBA”), which reduces net income and potentially negatively affects our credit instrument covenants and rating agency assessment of our financial condition, and may also cause us to accelerate the amortization of negative VOBA, which increases net income. An increase in interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair values of fixed income securities. Additionally, an increase in interest rates could increase our daily settlement payments on interest rate futures and cleared swaps, which may result in increased cash outflows and increase our liquidity needs. Furthermore, if interest rates rise, our unrealized gains on fixed income securities would decrease and our unrealized losses would increase, perhaps substantially. The accumulated change in estimated fair value of these fixed income securities would be recognized in net income when a gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or if the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other than temporary and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. Finally, an increase in interest rates could result in decreased fee income associated with a decline in the value of variable annuity account balances invested in fixed income funds. Actions resulting from the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board and of central banks around the world, including with respect to interest rates, may also impact the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments and may adversely impact the income we earn on our investments or the level of product sales.Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed income investments relative to our interest rate sensitive liabilities. For some of our liability portfolios it is not possible to invest assets to the full liability duration, thereby creating some asset/liability mismatch. In addition, asymmetrical and non-economic accounting may cause material changes to our net income and stockholders’ equity in any given period because our non-qualified derivatives are recorded at fair value through earnings, while the related hedged items either follow an accrual-based accounting model, such as insurance liabilities, or are recorded at fair value through other comprehensive income. Regulators, law enforcement agencies, or the ICE Benchmark Association (the current administrator of LIBOR) may take actions resulting in changes to the way LIBOR is determined, the discontinuance of reliance on LIBOR as a benchmark rate or the establishment of alternative reference rates. The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority has announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York has begun publishing a Secured Overnight Funding Rate (“SOFR”), which is intended to replace U.S. dollar LIBOR, and central banks in several other jurisdictions have also announced plans for alternative reference rates for other currencies. At this time, we cannot predict how markets will respond to these new rates, and we cannot predict the effect of any changes to or discontinuation of LIBOR on new or existing financial instruments to which we have exposure. Any changes to or discontinuation of LIBOR may have an adverse effect on interest rates on certain derivatives and floating-rate securities we hold, securities we have issued, or other assets or liabilities whose value is tied to LIBOR or to a LIBOR alternative. Any uncertainty regarding the continued use and reliability of LIBOR could adversely affect the value of such instruments. Furthermore, changes to or the discontinuation of LIBOR may impact other aspects of our business, including products, pricing, and models. Any change to or discontinuation of similar benchmark rates besides LIBOR could have similar effects. See:•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment;”•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — Current Environment;”•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — Fixed Maturity Securities AFS and Equity Securities;” and•Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.40Table of ContentsCredit Spread RiskChanges in credit spreads may result in market price volatility and cash flow variability. Market price volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. In such case, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period-to-period changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and may require additional reserves. Significant volatility in the markets could cause changes in credit spreads and defaults and a lack of pricing transparency, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. An increase in credit spreads relative to U.S. Treasury benchmarks can also adversely affect the cost of our borrowing should we need to access credit markets.See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — Investment Risks.”Equity RiskDownturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect on the revenues and investment returns from our savings and investment products and services, where fee income is earned based upon the estimated fair value of the assets that we manage. The variable annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness or stagnation in the equity markets could decrease revenues and earnings with respect to those products. Furthermore, certain of our variable annuity products offer guaranteed benefits that increase our potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline or stagnate. Sustained declines in long-term equity returns or interest rates likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of our pension plans and other postretirement benefit obligations. An increase in equity markets could increase settlement payments on equity futures, which may result in increased cash outflows and increase our liquidity needs.The timing of distributions from and valuations of leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds in which we invest can be difficult to predict and depends on the performance of the underlying investments, the funds’ schedules for making distributions, and their needs for cash. As a result, the amount of net investment income from these investments can vary substantially from period to period. Significant volatility could adversely impact returns and net investment income on these alternative investment classes. In addition, the estimated fair value of such alternative investments or equity securities we hold may be adversely impacted by downturns or volatility in equity markets. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”Real Estate RiskOur investments in commercial, agricultural and residential mortgage loans, and our investments in real estate and real estate joint ventures, can be adversely affected by changes in the supply and demand of leasable commercial space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets volatility, interest rate fluctuations, commodity prices, farm incomes and housing and commercial property market conditions. These factors, which are beyond our control, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows.Obligor and Counterparty RiskOur general account investments in certain countries, which we maintain to support our insurance operations and related policyholder liabilities in these countries and as part of our global portfolio diversification, could be adversely affected by volatility resulting from local economic and political concerns, as well as volatility in specific sectors. Additionally, U.S. states, municipalities may face budget deficits and other financial difficulties, which could have an adverse impact on the value of securities we hold issued by and political subdivisions or under the auspices of such U.S. states, municipalities and political subdivisions.The issuers or guarantors of fixed income securities and mortgage loans we own may default on principal and interest payments they owe us. Additionally, the underlying collateral within asset-backed securities, including mortgage-backed securities, may default on principal and interest payments causing an adverse change in cash flows. The occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening credit spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers, guarantors or underlying collateral of these securities and mortgage loans could cause the estimated fair value of our portfolio of fixed income securities and mortgage loans and our earnings to decline and the default rate of the fixed income securities and mortgage loans in our investment portfolio to increase.41Table of ContentsMany of our transactions with counterparties such as brokers and dealers, central clearinghouses, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and investment funds and other financial institutions expose us to the risk of counterparty default. Such credit risk may be exacerbated if we cannot realize the collateral held by us in secured transactions or cannot liquidate such collateral at prices sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. Furthermore, potential action by governments and regulatory bodies, such as investment, nationalization, conservatorship, receivership and other intervention, whether under existing legal authority or any new authority that may be created, or lack of action by governments and central banks, as well as deterioration in the banks’ credit standing, could negatively impact these instruments, securities, transactions and investments or limit our ability to trade with them. Any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these investments or other changes may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.See:•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Financial and Economic Environment” and•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — Current Environment — Selected Country and Sector Investments.”Currency Exchange Rate RiskWe are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries, net income from non-U.S. operations and issuance of non-U.S. dollar denominated instruments, including GICs and funding agreements. In general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the estimated fair value of our non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, our investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries, and our net income from non-U.S. operations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may make certain of our products less attractive to customers, particularly products denominated in a currency that is not the local currency of the market in which such products are sold, which may increase levels of early policy terminations and decrease sales volume and our amount of business in force. The negative effects described above may be exacerbated if international markets, particularly emerging markets, experience severe economic or financial disruptions or significant currency devaluations, if a foreign economy is determined to be “highly inflationary,” or if a country withdraws from the Euro zone. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could thus have a material adverse effect on our operations, earnings and investments in the affected countries.We may be unable to mitigate the risk of such changes in exchange rates due to unhedged positions, asymmetrical and non-economic accounting resulting from derivative gains (losses) on non-qualifying hedges, the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation, or other factors. Even if foreign currency denominated liabilities are matched with investments denominated in the respective foreign currencies, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect the translation of results into our U.S. dollar basis consolidated financial statements. See:•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Executive Summary — Other Key Information — Argentina Highly Inflationary” and•“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”Derivatives RiskIf our counterparties, clearing brokers or central clearinghouses fail or refuse to honor their obligations under our derivatives, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. A counterparty’s or central clearinghouse’s insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of derivatives agreements or inability or unwillingness to return collateral could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including our liquidity. If the net estimated fair value of a derivative to which we are a party declines, we may be required to pledge collateral or make payments related to such decline. In addition, ratings downgrades or financial difficulties of derivative counterparties may require us to utilize additional capital with respect to the impacted businesses. Furthermore, the valuation of our derivatives could change based on changes to our valuation methodology or the discovery of errors in such valuation or valuation methodology.See:•“Business — Regulation — Derivatives Regulation” and •“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Derivatives.”42Table of ContentsTerrorism and Security RisksThe continued threat of terrorism, both within the U.S. and abroad, ongoing military and other actions, potential military conflicts, and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. The value of our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by such threats. Companies in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions, and such disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities or mortgage loans. Terrorist or military actions also could disrupt our operations centers and result in higher than anticipated claims under our insurance policies.Adverse Capital and Credit Market Conditions May Significantly Affect Our Ability to Meet Liquidity Needs, Our Access to Capital and Our Cost of CapitalVolatility, disruptions, or other conditions in global capital markets could also have an adverse impact on our capital, credit capacity, and liquidity. If our stress-testing indicates that such conditions could have an impact beyond expectations, or our business otherwise requires, we may have to seek additional financing, the availability and cost of which could be adversely affected by market conditions, regulatory considerations, availability of credit to our industry generally, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the perception of our customers and lenders regarding our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large operating or investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. Our liquidity requirements may change if, among other things, we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice under securities lending or derivatives agreements or we are required to post collateral or make payments related to specified counterparty agreements. Without sufficient liquidity, our ability to pay claims, other operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, to provide our subsidiaries with cash or collateral, to maintain our securities lending activities, to replace certain maturing liabilities, to sustain our operations and investments, and to repurchase our common stock could be adversely affected, and our business and financial results may suffer. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital needed to operate our business, most significantly in our insurance operations. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities, satisfy regulatory capital requirements, and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue different types of securities than we would have otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets.See:•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — Securities Lending and Repurchase Agreements;” and•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Liquidity.”An Inability to Access Our Credit Facility Could Result in a Reduction in Our Liquidity and Lead to Downgrades in Our Credit and Financial Strength RatingsOur failure to comply with or fulfill all conditions and covenants under the unsecured credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) maintained by MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Funding, Inc. (“MetLife Funding”), or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the Credit Facility, could restrict our ability to access the Credit Facility when needed. This could adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations as they come due and our credit and financial strength ratings, and could thus have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.See:•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Liquidity and Capital Sources — Global Funding Sources — Credit and Committed Facilities” and •Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.43Table of ContentsA Downgrade or a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or Credit Ratings Could Result in a Loss of Business and Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of OperationsNationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (“NRSROs”) and similar entities could downgrade our insurance companies’ financial strength ratings or our credit ratings, or lower our ratings outlooks, at any time and without notice. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: •reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products;•impacting the cost and availability of financing for MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries;•adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries;•materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders;•requiring us to post collateral, including additional collateral under certain of our financing and derivative transactions;•requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive;•providing termination rights for the benefit of our derivative instrument counterparties; •adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all;•limiting our access to the capital markets;•increasing the cost of debt; and•subjecting us to increased regulatory scrutiny.NRSROs may heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to insurance companies, increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, request additional information from the companies that they rate, and adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the models for maintenance of certain ratings levels.See:•“Business — Company Ratings;”•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Liquidity and Capital Uses — Pledged Collateral;” •“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Capital — Rating Agencies;” and•Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Reinsurance May Not Be Available, Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us Against LossesMarket conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance protection for new business, and in certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. Any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss, and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue.Because reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to policyholders, a reinsurer’s insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance agreement, or a reinsurer’s inability or unwillingness to maintain collateral, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including our liquidity.See “Business — Reinsurance Activity.”44Table of ContentsOur Statutory Life Insurance Reserve Financings May Be Subject to Cost Increases, and New Financings May Be Subject to Limited Market CapacityCertain of our financing facilities that support statutory life insurance reserves for previously written business are subject to cost increases upon the occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of MetLife or are subject to periodic re-pricing. Any resulting cost increases could negatively impact our financial results. Furthermore, future capacity for such statutory reserve financing structures in the marketplace is not guaranteed. If types of assets permitted under current regulations are not available in the future to back statutory reserves, as a result of new legislation or regulations or otherwise, we would not be able to take some or all statutory reserve credit for such transactions, which could materially and adversely affect the statutory capitalization of certain of our insurance subsidiaries.See:•“Business — Regulation — Insurance Regulation — NAIC” and•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Capital — Affiliated Captive Reinsurance Transactions.”Regulatory and Legal RisksOur Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Laws, Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability, Limit Our Growth, or Otherwise Adversely Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial ConditionOur businesses are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate across the world. Authorities and regulators may take actions or make decisions, including implementing or modifying licensing, permit, or approval requirements, that may negatively affect our business. They may also take actions or make decisions that adversely affect our customers and independent sales intermediaries or their operations, which may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products, and thus may negatively affect our business in a variety of jurisdictions. The overall regulatory environment (or changes to that environment) in the countries in which we operate, and changes in laws in those jurisdictions, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot predict with any certainty the impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations of changes to legislative or administrative policies that can affect insurance, such as policies regarding financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation, or any new legislation or regulatory changes that may be adopted. From time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of MetLife, Inc.’s regulated subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. In addition, changing interpretations of regulations by regulators and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements, may adversely affect our businesses. Further, a particular regulator or other governmental authority may interpret a law, regulation or accounting principle differently than we have, exposing us to different or additional risks. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including regulatory and securities filings requirements, is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business. Additionally, any failure to strictly comply with regulatory or securities filing requirements, or any other legal or regulatory requirements, could harm our reputation or result in regulatory sanctions or legal claims. Changes to or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could thus have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.In addition, solvency standards under development in several markets may impact our capital requirements, risk management infrastructure and reporting. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that MetLife will not in the future be subject to enhanced capital standards, supervision and additional requirements, such as G-SII requirements or other group capital standards or insurer capital standards. Under provisions of Dodd-Frank, if MetLife, Inc. were to become insolvent or were in danger of defaulting on its obligations and it was determined that such default would have serious effects on financial stability in the U.S., MetLife, Inc. could be compelled to undergo liquidation with the FDIC as receiver. If the FDIC were appointed as the receiver, liquidation would occur under the provisions of the new liquidation authority and not under the Bankruptcy Code. In an FDIC-managed liquidation, our shareholders and unsecured creditors could bear greater losses than they would in a liquidation under the Bankruptcy Code. These provisions could also apply to financial institutions whose debt securities we hold in our investment portfolio and could adversely affect our position as a creditor and the value of our holdings. We could also be subject to assessment of charges to cover the costs of liquidating any financial company subject to the new liquidation authority, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.45Table of ContentsChanges to the laws and regulations that govern the conduct of our variable and registered fixed insurance products business and the firms that distribute these products could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Such changes could increase our regulatory and compliance burden, resulting in increased costs, or limit the type, amount or structure of compensation arrangements into which we may enter with certain of our associates, which could negatively impact our ability to compete with other companies in recruiting and retaining key personnel. Additionally, our ability to react to rapidly changing economic conditions and the dynamic, competitive market for variable and registered fixed products will depend on the continued efficacy of provisions we have incorporated into our product design allowing frequent and contemporaneous revisions of key pricing elements, as well as our ability to work collaboratively with securities regulators. Changes in regulatory approval processes, rules and other dynamics in the regulatory process could adversely impact our ability to react to such changing conditions.We also cannot predict with certainty the impact of rules, should they take effect, substantially expanding the definition of “investment advice” and imposing an impartial or “best interests” standard in providing such advice, thereby broadening the circumstances under which MetLife or its representatives could be deemed a fiduciary under ERISA or the Code, or amendments to certain prohibited transaction exemptions, will have on our products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to ERISA or the Code. Furthermore, we cannot predict the impact that “best interest” standards recently proposed by various regulators may have on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Compliance with new or changed rules or legislation in this area may increase our regulatory burden and that of our independent sales intermediaries, require changes to our compensation practices and product offerings, and increase litigation risk, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Laws, regulations, or regulatory actions regarding health care and other areas may also adversely affect our ability to continue to offer our products, including non-medical health and dental insurance products, in the same manner as we do today and may result in increased and unpredictable costs to provide certain products, thereby harming our competitive position. We are unable to predict how future changes, if any, to laws or regulations may affect us or the products that we offer.We provide employment-related benefits to our associates and to certain of our retirees under complex plans that are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements. If laws, regulations or regulatory actions result in changes to those benefits, it could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and motivate our associates. Such laws, regulations and regulatory actions could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide employee benefits, and could harm our competitive position if we are subject to fees, penalties, tax provisions or other limitations and our competitors are not.In addition, rules on defined benefit pension plan funding may negatively impact the likelihood or timing of corporate plan sponsors terminating their plans or engaging in transactions to partially or fully transfer pension obligations to an insurance company. Consequently, such rules could indirectly affect the mix of our business, resulting in fewer pension risk transfers and more non-guaranteed funding products, and could adversely impact our results of operations.Changes in laws and regulations that affect our customers and independent sales intermediaries or their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. Such actions may negatively affect our business and results of operations.If our associates fail to adhere to regulatory requirements or our policies and procedures, we may be subject to penalties, restrictions or other sanctions by applicable regulators, and we may suffer reputational harm. See “Business — Regulation,” as supplemented by discussions of regulatory developments in our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments.”Changes in Tax Laws or Interpretations of Such Laws Could Reduce Our Earnings and Materially Impact Our Operations by Increasing Our Corporate Taxes and Making Some of Our Products Less Attractive to ConsumersChanges in tax laws or interpretations of such laws could increase our corporate taxes and reduce our earnings. Global budget deficits make it likely that governments’ need for additional offsetting revenue will result in future tax proposals that will increase our effective tax rate or have product implications. However, it remains difficult to predict the timing and effect that future tax law changes could have on our earnings. Such changes could not only directly impact our corporate taxes but also could adversely impact our products (including life insurance and retirement plans) by making some of our products less attractive to consumers. A shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products by our customers would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the asset base upon which we earn investment income and fees, thereby reducing our earnings and potentially affecting the value of our deferred tax assets.46Table of ContentsThe precise impact of certain provisions of U.S. Tax Reform is still uncertain. For instance, many regulations under the new law have not been finalized or have only recently been finalized, including certain rules on international taxation. U.S. Tax Reform thus contains provisions whose meaning is subject to differing interpretations, and future guidance may materially differ from our current interpretation.See:•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Executive Summary — Overview — U.S. Tax Reform” and•Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Litigation and Regulatory Investigations Are Increasingly Common in Our Businesses and May Result in Significant Financial Losses and Harm to Our ReputationWe face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses. Plaintiffs’ lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, investments, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may often be difficult to ascertain. Uncertainties can include how fact finders will evaluate documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. In addition, a court or other governmental authority may interpret a law, regulation or accounting principle differently than we have, exposing us to different or additional risks. Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law.A substantial legal liability or a significant federal, state or other regulatory action against us, as well as regulatory inquiries or investigations, could harm our reputation, result in material fines or penalties, result in significant legal costs and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain associates could be materially and adversely impacted. Regulatory inquiries and litigation may also cause volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry.Current claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. It is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may arise or be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations, lawsuits, or enforcement actions. Increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us and risks to our business presented by these proceedings are discussed in Note 20 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Updates are provided in the notes to our interim condensed consolidated financial statements regarding contingencies, commitments and guarantees included in our subsequently filed quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, as well as in Part II, Item 1 (“Legal Proceedings”) of those quarterly reports.Capital RisksLegal and Regulatory Restrictions May Prevent Us from Paying Dividends and Repurchasing Our Stock at the Level We WishThere is no assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends or repurchase any of our common stock. Dividends are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by MetLife, Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. Common stock repurchases are also subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our capital position, liquidity, financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions, the market price of our common stock compared to management’s assessment of the stock’s underlying value, applicable regulatory approvals, and other legal and accounting factors.47Table of ContentsTerms applicable to our Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (the “Series A preferred stock”), junior subordinated debentures and trust securities may restrict our ability to pay dividends or interest on those instruments in certain circumstances. MetLife is also permitted under the terms of our junior subordinated debentures to suspend payments of interest during certain periods of time. Such suspension of payments, whether required or optional, could cause “dividend stopper” provisions applicable under those and other instruments to restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and repurchase our common stock in various situations, including situations where we may be experiencing financial stress, and may restrict our ability to pay dividends or interest on our preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures as well. Replacement capital covenants may limit our ability to eliminate some of these restrictions through the repayment, redemption or purchase of junior subordinated debentures.Under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act, we may be restricted from repurchasing shares or entering into share repurchase programs when we are aware of material non-public information. These restrictions may limit our ability to repurchase shares from time to time, including but not limited to periods of significant corporate reorganization.See:•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — MetLife, Inc. — Liquidity and Capital Sources — Dividends from Subsidiaries” and •“Dividend Restrictions” in Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.As a Holding Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its Subsidiaries to Pay Dividends, a Major Component of Holding Company Free Cash FlowIf the cash MetLife, Inc. receives from its subsidiaries through dividends and permitted payments under the tax sharing agreement with its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding company obligations, MetLife, Inc. may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. If MetLife, Inc.’s operating subsidiaries are unable to make expected dividend payments to MetLife, Inc., we may be unable to meet our free cash flow goals, and our ability to distribute cash to shareholders could be adversely affected.Dividends to MetLife, Inc. by its insurance subsidiaries in excess of prescribed limits generally require insurance regulatory approval. In addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments to MetLife, Inc. by its insurance subsidiaries if they determine that the payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. The payment of dividends and other distributions by insurance companies may also be limited by business conditions and rating agency considerations. Furthermore, any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our foreign subsidiaries and branches to MetLife, Inc. could be subject to taxation, insurance regulatory or other restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. Net worth maintenance or other support agreements, which MetLife, Inc. or its subsidiaries may from time to time establish with their subsidiaries, may require MetLife, Inc. or such other supporting subsidiary to transfer capital to such supported subsidiary, thereby limiting capital that is available for other purposes. See: •“Business — Regulation —Insurance Regulation — Surplus and Capital;” •“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — MetLife, Inc. — Liquidity and Capital Sources — Dividends from Subsidiaries;” •“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — MetLife, Inc. — Liquidity and Capital Uses — Support Agreements;” and•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures.”Investment Risks48Table of ContentsDefaults, Downgrades, Volatility or Other Events May Adversely Affect the Investments We Hold, Resulting in a Reduction in Our Net Income and ProfitabilityA major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening credit risk spreads, ratings downgrades or other events could adversely affect the issuers or guarantors of securities or the underlying collateral of structured securities that we hold, which could cause the estimated fair value of our fixed income securities portfolio and corresponding earnings to decline and the default rate of the fixed income securities in our investment portfolio to increase. Similarly, a ratings downgrade affecting a security we hold could require us to hold more capital to support that security in order to maintain our RBC levels. Our intent to sell, or our assessment of the likelihood that we will be required to sell, fixed income securities may adversely impact levels of writedowns or impairments. Realized losses or impairments on these securities may have a material adverse effect on our net income in a particular quarterly or annual period. An increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments or fluctuations in their performance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Substantially all of our commercial and agricultural mortgage loans held for investment have balloon payment maturities, which may increase the risk of default. Any geographic or property type concentration of our mortgage loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolio and consequently on our results of operations or financial condition, and our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. In addition, legislation that would allow or require modifications to the terms of mortgage loans could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolio, results of operations or financial condition.See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — Mortgage Loans.”We May Have Difficulty Selling Certain Holdings in Our Investment Portfolio or in Our Securities Lending Program in a Timely Manner and Realizing Full ValueThere may be a limited market for certain investments we hold in our investment portfolio, making them relatively illiquid. These include privately-placed fixed income securities, certain derivative instruments, mortgage loans, policy loans, direct financing and leveraged leases, other limited partnership interests, tax credit and renewable energy partnerships and real estate equity, including real estate joint ventures and funds. Even some of our very high quality investments may experience reduced liquidity during periods of market volatility or disruption. If we are forced to sell certain assets in our investment portfolio during periods of market volatility or disruption, market prices may be lower than our carrying value in such investments, and we may have difficulty selling such investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell investments in a volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. This may result in realized losses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as our financial ratios, which could in turn affect compliance with our credit instruments and rating agency capital adequacy measures.We may face similar risks if we are required under our securities lending program to return significant amounts of cash collateral that we have invested. If we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities over time in response to such risks, the amount of net investment income generated by these activities will also likely decline.Our Requirements to Pledge Collateral or Make Payments Related to Declines in Estimated Fair Value of Derivatives Transactions or Specified Assets in Connection with OTC-Cleared and OTC-Bilateral Transactions May Adversely Affect Our Liquidity, Expose Us to Central Clearinghouse and Counterparty Credit Risk, and Increase our Costs of HedgingThe amount of collateral we may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to make under our derivatives transactions may increase under certain circumstances. The OCC, the Federal Reserve Board, FDIC, Prudential Regulators, the CFTC, central clearinghouses and counterparties may restrict or eliminate certain types of eligible collateral or charge us to pledge such non-cash collateral, which would increase our costs and could adversely affect the liquidity of our investments and the composition of our investment portfolio. See:•“Business — Regulation — Derivatives Regulation;”•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Liquidity and Capital Uses — Pledged Collateral;” and•Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.49Table of ContentsChanges to Our Valuation of Securities and Investments, the Allowances and Impairments Taken on Our Investments, and Our Methodologies, Estimations and Assumptions Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or Financial ConditionConsiderable judgment is often required in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value, and the use of different assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, or if trading becomes less frequent or market data becomes less observable, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, and certain asset classes may become illiquid. In such cases, our valuations may be based on inputs that are less observable and more subjective, which may result in estimated fair values that significantly exceed the amount at which the investments may ultimately be sold. Furthermore, rapidly changing credit and equity market conditions could materially and adversely impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in estimated fair value could vary significantly. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. Decreases in the estimated fair value of securities we hold may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. See:•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments” and •Notes 1, 8 and 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Business RisksDifferences Between Actual Claims Experience and Underwriting and Reserving Assumptions May Adversely Affect Our Financial ResultsOur earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. To the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to reduce DAC or VOBA, increase our liabilities or incur higher costs.We cannot determine precisely the amounts that we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. We evaluate our actual experience and liabilities periodically based on accounting requirements, and that evaluation can result in a change to liability assumptions that may increase our liabilities. Reserve estimates in some instances are also affected by our operating practices and procedures that are used, among other things, to support our assumptions with respect to the Company’s obligations to its policyholders and contractholders. These practices and procedures include, among other things, obtaining, accumulating, and filtering data, and our use of technology, such as database analysis and electronic communications. To the extent that these practices and procedures do not accurately produce the data to support our assumptions or cause us to change our assumptions, or to the extent that enhanced technological tools become available to us, such assumptions and procedures, as well as our reserves, may require adjustment. Furthermore, to the extent that any of our operating practices and procedures do not accurately produce, or reproduce, data that we use to conduct any or all aspects of our business, such errors may negatively impact our business, reputation, results of operations, and financial condition. Increased longevity due to improvements in medical technologies may require us to modify our assumptions, models, or reserves. Additionally, increases in the prevalence and accuracy of genetic testing, or legislation or regulation regarding the use by insurers of information produced by such testing, may exacerbate adverse selection risks. Such changes in medical technologies may thus have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.See:•“Business — Policyholder Liabilities;”•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Policyholder Liabilities;”•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates — Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired;”•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates — Derivatives;” and•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations — Consolidated Results — Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2017 — Actuarial Assumption Review and Certain Other Insurance Adjustments.”50Table of ContentsThe Global Nature of Our Operations Exposes Us to a Variety of Political, Legal, Operational, Economic and Other RisksThe global nature of our business operations exposes us to a wide range of political, legal, operational, economic and other risks, including but not limited to:•nationalization or expropriation of assets;•imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies;•changes in laws (including insurance and tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, including retroactive application of such changes;•political instability (including any government’s inability to maintain operations or funding);•economic or trade sanctions;•dividend limitations;•price controls;•changes in applicable currency;•currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds out of the countries in which we operate or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies;•difficulty in enforcing contracts;•imposition of regulations limiting our ability to distribute our products; and•public or political criticism of our products, practices, and other aspects of our business and operations. Such actions or events may negatively affect our business or reputation in the relevant jurisdictions and could indirectly affect our business or reputation in other jurisdictions as well. Some of our operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets, where many of these risks are heightened. Additionally, we face risks related to a number of issues or concerns that may impact our global operations, including but not limited to international trade agreements (e.g., NAFTA/USMCA), uncertainties in intergovernmental organizations (e.g., the EU and the U.K.’s planned withdrawal from it), pension system reforms, and others.If we encounter labor problems with workers’ associations or trade unions, or if any of our businesses is not successful, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training the sales force in that business, which may adversely affect our results of operations.Expanding our operations to new businesses or jurisdictions may require considerable management time and start-up expenses before significant, if any, revenues and earnings are generated, which may reduce the amount of management and financial resources available for other uses. Our operations in new or existing markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, which may negatively impact our operating margins and results of operations.See: •“Business — Regulation;”•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Financial and Economic Environment;”•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — Current Environment — Selected Country and Sector Investments;” and•“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”51Table of ContentsCompetitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and ProfitabilityCompetitive pressures, based on a number of factors including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities, name recognition, and other factors, may adversely affect the persistency of our products and our ability to sell products in the future. We can be adversely affected by competition from other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial services companies such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, which may have a broader array of products, more competitive pricing, higher claims paying ability ratings, greater financial resources with which to compete, or pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. Additionally, we may lose purchasers of group insurance products that are underwritten annually if they are able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors than they could by renewing coverage with us. These competitive pressures may adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell our products in the future. Furthermore, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses have relatively low barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. Our customers and clients may engage other financial service providers, and the resulting loss of business could negatively affect our results of operations or financial condition.An increase in consolidation activity among banks and broker-dealers, through which the insurance industry distributes many of its individual products, may negatively impact the industry’s sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market insurance products to our current customer base or to expand our customer base. Consolidation of distributors or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us.In addition, legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory environment for our business may have the effect of supporting or burdening some aspects of or actors in the financial services industry more than others, which could adversely affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the broader financial services industry. See:•“Business — Competition;”•“Business — Regulation;” and•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Competitive Pressures.”Technological Changes May Present New and Intensified Challenges to Our BusinessRecent and future changes in technology may present us with new challenges and may intensify many of the challenges that we already face. For example, as a result of the availability of new technological tools for data collection and analysis, we have access to an increasing amount of data, from an increasing variety of sources, regarding deaths of our policyholders and annuitants. We may be unable to accurately or completely process this increased volume of information within the time periods required by applicable standards. Furthermore, the additional information that we obtain as a result of technological improvements may require us to modify our assumptions, models, or reserves. Changes in technology related to collection and analysis of data regarding customers could, in these ways or others, expose us to regulatory or legal actions and may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, and financial condition. Technological changes may impact the ways in which we interact with our customers. As technology evolves, customers may expect increased choices in the ways in which they interact with us, and we may be required to redesign certain of our products to meet changing customer preferences. Our distribution channels may become more automated in order to provide customers with increased flexibility to access our services and products at times and places of their choosing. Such changes may require significant costs to implement. If we are unsuccessful in implementing such changes, our competitive position may be harmed and our relationships with our distribution partners may suffer. Technological advances may also impact the composition and results of our investment portfolio. For example, changes in energy technology may impact the relative attractiveness of investments in a variety of energy sources, and increasing consumer preferences for e-commerce may negatively impact the profitability of retail and commercial real estate. If we are unable to adjust our investments in reaction to such changes, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.52Table of ContentsCatastrophes May Adversely Impact Liabilities for Policyholder Claims and Reinsurance AvailabilityClaims resulting from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. In addition, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of issuers of obligations we hold in our investment portfolio, resulting in impairments to these obligations, and could also harm the financial condition of our reinsurers, thereby increasing the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. Large-scale catastrophic events may also reduce the overall level of economic activity in affected countries, which could hurt our business and the value of our investments or our ability to write new business. It is possible that increases in the value of property, caused by inflation or other factors, and geographic concentration of insured lives or property, could increase the severity of claims we receive from future catastrophic events. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophic events.Our life insurance operations face the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. A significant pandemic could have a major impact on the global economy and financial markets or could result in disruption to our business operations. The effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic is outside of our control and could have a material impact on the losses we experience. A localized event that affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. These events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in any period.Our Property & Casualty businesses will likely experience, from time to time, catastrophe losses as a result of various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather, fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition in any period. Climate change may increase the frequency and severity of weather related disasters and pandemics. In addition, climate change regulation may affect the prospects of companies and other entities whose securities we hold or our willingness to continue to hold their securities. It may also impact other counterparties, including reinsurers, and affect the value of our investments, including real estate investments. We cannot predict the long-term impacts on us from climate change or related regulation.Consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. We cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. State legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation restricting an insurer’s ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas or requiring regulatory approval of internal reinsurance transactions, may impede our efforts to manage our catastrophe risk. Our ability to manage catastrophe risk also depends in part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be available at commercially acceptable rates, or at all, in the future.A catastrophic event could render inadequate the funds of guaranty associations or similar organizations, and we may be called upon to contribute additional amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. See: •“Business — Regulation — Insurance Regulation — Guaranty Associations and Similar Arrangements;”•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Executive Summary — Other Key Information — Hurricanes;” and•Note 20 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.We May Need to Fund Deficiencies in Our Closed Block; Assets Allocated to the Closed Block Benefit Only the Holders of Closed Block PoliciesThe closed block assets established in connection with the demutualization of MLIC, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block may not be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. If they are not, we must fund the shortfall. Even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds. Such actions may reduce funds that would otherwise be available to us for other uses and could thus adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 53Table of ContentsWe May Be Required to Recognize an Impairment of Our Goodwill or Other Long-Lived Assets or to Establish a Valuation Allowance Against Our Deferred Income Tax AssetsIf the performance of our businesses are negatively impacted by prolonged market declines or other factors, the estimated fair value of the reporting units on which we perform our goodwill impairment testing may be reduced, which may result in a determination that the goodwill has been impaired. In such case, we must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. Such write-downs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position.Similarly, if impairment testing of long-lived assets, including but not limited to real estate, indicates that we will be unable to recover the carrying amount of such an asset, we must write down the asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position.Management may determine that it is more likely than not that any particular deferred income tax asset will not be realized, based on factors such as the performance of the business including the ability to generate future taxable income. In such circumstance, a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. In addition, changes in the corporate tax rates could affect the value of our deferred tax assets and may require a write-off of some of those assets. See: •“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates — Goodwill;”•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates — Income Taxes;”•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Executive Summary — Overview — U.S. Tax Reform;” and•Notes 1 and 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.We May Be Required to Accelerate the Amortization of or Impair DAC, DSI or VOBADAC, deferred sales inducements (“DSI”) and VOBA for certain products are amortized in proportion to actual and expected gross profits or margins. Low investment returns, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation may negatively affect the amount of future gross profit or margins. If actual gross profits or margins are less than originally expected, then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to net income. Significant or sustained equity market declines or significantly lower spreads could result in an acceleration of amortization of DAC, DSI and VOBA, resulting in a charge to net income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.See:•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates — Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired;”•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment;” and •Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Guarantees Within Certain Products May Decrease Our Earnings, Increase the Volatility of Our Results, Result in Higher Risk Management Costs and Expose Us to Increased Counterparty RiskThe valuation of our liabilities associated with products that include guaranteed benefits, including guaranteed minimum death benefits (“GMDBs”) (including but not limited to no-lapse guarantee benefits), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (“GMWBs”), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits (“GMABs”), guaranteed minimum income benefits (“GMIBs”), and minimum crediting rate features could increase in the event of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest rates. An increase in these liabilities would result in a decrease in our net income.54Table of ContentsThe derivatives and other risk management strategies we use to hedge the economic exposure to these liabilities that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment may result in volatility in the results of our operations, including net income, to the extent the financial measurement of the hedged liability does not fully reflect the sensitivity to the underlying economic exposure. The risk management strategies and hedging instruments that we use to directly mitigate the volatility in net income associated with certain of these liabilities, including the use of reinsurance and derivatives, may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees and may not be completely effective. Furthermore, changes in policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, may produce economic losses not addressed by the risk management techniques employed. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including net income, capitalization, financial condition or liquidity, including our ability to receive dividends from our operating insurance companies. See:•“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Policyholder Liabilities — Variable Annuity Guarantees” and•Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Operational RisksOur Risk Management Policies and Procedures or Our Models May Leave Us Exposed to Unidentified or Unanticipated RiskOur enterprise risk management policies and procedures may not be sufficiently comprehensive and may not identify every risk to which we are exposed. Many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior to model or project potential future exposure.Models used by our business are based on assumptions, projections and data that may be inaccurate. Business or other decisions, including determination of reserves, based on incorrect or misused model output and reports could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Models used by our business may be misspecified for their intended purpose, may be misused, may not operate properly, and may contain errors related to model inputs, data, assumptions, calculations, or output. We perform model reviews that could give rise to adjustments to models that may adversely impact our results of operations. Additionally, our model review process may not adequately identify or remediate errors in or related to our models. As a result, our models may not fully predict future exposures or correctly reflect past experience, which may have a material impact on our business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition.Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we can effectively review and monitor all risks or that all of our associates will follow our risk management policies and procedures, nor can there be any assurance that our risk management policies and procedures will enable us to accurately identify all risks and limit our exposures based on our assessments. In addition, we may have to implement more extensive and perhaps different risk management policies and procedures in the future due to legal and regulatory requirements, which could result in increased costs and may adversely affect our results of operations. See:• “Business — Regulation — Insurance Regulation” and•“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”Our Policies and Procedures May Be Insufficient To Protect Us From Certain Operational RisksWe are highly dependent on our ability to process a large number of complex transactions across our businesses. The large number of transactions we process, and complexity of our administrative systems, makes it possible that errors will occasionally occur, and the controls and procedures we have in place to prevent such errors may not be entirely effective. The occurrence of mistakes, particularly significant ones, can subject us to claims from our customers and may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, or financial condition.We are dependent on our group product customers or their employees for certain information to accurately review and pay claims on many of our products. If we are unable to obtain necessary and accurate information from our customers, we may be unable to provide or verify coverage and to pay claims, or we may pay claims without accurate or complete documentation, which may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, or financial condition.55Table of ContentsFrom time to time, we rely on vendors or other service providers for services related to the administration of our products, investment management, or other business operations. To the extent our efforts to ensure such vendors’ controls meet our standards are inadequate, our vendors fail to perform their services accurately or timely, the exchange of information between us and our vendors is imperfect, or our vendors suffer financial or reputational distress, any errors, misconduct, or discontinuation of services that result could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, or financial condition.From time to time, our administrative and operational practices may fail to timely and completely identify all of the property that we are legally required to escheat to a variety of jurisdictions as unclaimed property. As a result, we may be subject to unexpected charges, reserve strengthening, and expenses, as well as regulatory examinations, penalties or other fines. Each of these affects may harm our reputation or regulatory relationships that may harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations.Our practices and procedures are evaluated periodically and from time to time may limit our efforts to contact all of our customers, which may result in delayed, untimely, or missed customer payments that may have a material adverse effect on the Company, including reputational harm. We are subject to risks related to fraud, including fraud committed by our associates, as well as fraud through claims and other processes. Our policies and procedures may be ineffective in preventing, detecting or mitigating fraud and other illegal or improper acts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, or results of operations.If our policies and practices to attract, motivate and retain employees, to develop talent, and to plan for management succession are not effective, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected.We cannot be certain that we will not identify control deficiencies or material weaknesses in the future. If we identify future control deficiencies or material weaknesses, these may lead to additional adverse effects on our business, our reputation, our results of operations, and the market price of our common stock.See “Business — Regulation — Unclaimed Property.”A Failure in Our Cybersecurity or Other Information Security Systems or Our Disaster Recovery Plans, or Those of Our Suppliers, Could Result in a Loss or Disclosure of Confidential Information, Damage to Our Reputation and Impairment of Our Ability to Conduct Business EffectivelyWe rely on the effective operation of our and our suppliers’ computer systems throughout our business for a variety of functions, including processing claims, transactions and applications, providing information to customers and distributors, performing actuarial analyses and maintaining financial records. We also retain confidential and proprietary information on our and our suppliers’ computer systems, and we rely on sophisticated technologies to maintain the security of that information. Our and our suppliers’ computer systems are subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized or fraudulent access, social engineering, phishing, human error, cyberattacks or other computer-related penetrations, and such threats have increased over recent periods. The administrative and technical controls and other preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber-incidents and protect our information technology may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks, compromised credentials, fraud, other security breaches or other unauthorized access to our and our suppliers’ computer systems. In some cases, such cyber-incidents may not be immediately detected. Such incidents may impede or interrupt our business operations and could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations.In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, epidemic, industrial accident, blackout, computer virus, terrorist attack, cyberattack or war, unanticipated problems with our and our suppliers’ disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our and our suppliers’ computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. In addition, if a significant number of our managers, or associates generally, are unavailable following a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. These interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers’ ability to provide goods and services and our associates’ ability to perform their job responsibilities.The failure of our and our suppliers’ computer systems or our and our suppliers’ disaster recovery plans for any reason, or any such failure on the part of vendors, distributors, and other third parties that provide operational or information technology services to us, could cause significant interruptions in our operations and result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. Such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory investigations and sanctions, expose us to legal claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. Insurance for cyber liability, operational and other risks relating to our business and systems may not be sufficient to protect us against such losses or may become less readily available or more expensive, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, increased scrutiny of cybersecurity issues by regulators, including new laws or regulations, could result in increased compliance costs.56Table of ContentsThere can be no assurance that our information security policies and systems in place can prevent unauthorized access, use or disclosure of confidential information, including nonpublic personal information, nor can we be certain that we will be able to reliably access all of the documents and records in the information storage systems we use, whether electronic or physical. In some circumstances, we may fail to obtain or maintain all of the records we need to accurately and timely administer, and establish appropriate reserves for benefits and claims with respect to, our products, which failure could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations or our financial condition.We are continuously evaluating and enhancing systems and creating new systems and processes as our business depends on our ability to maintain and improve our technology systems. Due to the complexity and interconnectedness of our systems and processes, these changes, as well as changes designed to update and enhance our protective measures to address new threats, increase the risk of a system or process failure or the creation of a gap in our security measures. Any such failure or gap could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition.Any Failure to Protect the Confidentiality of Client Information Could Adversely Affect Our Reputation or Result in Legal or Regulatory PenaltiesIf we or our suppliers fail to maintain adequate internal controls or if our or our suppliers’ associates fail to comply with relevant policies and procedures, misappropriation or intentional or unintentional inappropriate disclosure or misuse of our clients’ confidential personal information could occur. Such internal control inadequacies or non-compliance could materially damage our reputation or lead to civil or criminal penalties, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased scrutiny of privacy issues by regulators, including new laws or regulations, could result in increased compliance costs. In addition, any inquiries from U.S. state, federal or other regulators regarding the use of “big data” techniques could result in harm to our reputation, and any limitations could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.See “Business — Regulation — Cybersecurity and Privacy Regulation.” Changes in Accounting Standards May Adversely Affect Our Financial StatementsFrom time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) and the IFRS Foundation. We cannot always meaningfully assess the effects of such new or revised accounting standards on our financial statements. Our adoption of future accounting standards could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our Associates May Take Excessive Risks, Which Could Negatively Affect Our Financial Condition and BusinessThe associates who conduct our business, including executive officers and other members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, product managers, sales agents, wholesalers, underwriters, and other associates, may take excessive risks in a wide variety of business decisions, including setting underwriting guidelines and standards, determining claims, designing and pricing products, determining what assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, evaluating business opportunities, and other decisions. The design and implementation of our compensation programs and practices may not be effective in deterring our associates from taking excessive risks, and our controls and procedures may not be sufficient to monitor associates’ business decisions, prevent excessive risk-taking, or prevent associate misconduct. If our associates take excessive risks, the impact of those risks could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and business operations.We May Experience Difficulty in Marketing and Distributing Products Through Our Distribution ChannelsThird-party distributors, through whom we primarily distribute our products, may suspend, alter, reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us for various reasons, including changes in our distribution strategy, adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. There can be no assurance that the terms of our agreements with third-party distributors will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. Key distribution partners may merge, change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, or terminate their distribution contracts with us, and new distribution channels could emerge, and such developments could adversely impact the effectiveness of our distribution efforts. Consolidation of distributors and other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. Interruptions or changes to our relationships with distributors could materially hinder our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.We may not be able to monitor or control the manner in which unaffiliated firms or agents distribute our products. If our products are distributed by such firms or agents in an inappropriate manner, or to customers for whom they are unsuitable, we may be subject to reputational harm, regulatory fines and other harm to our business. 57Table of ContentsChanges in Our Assumptions Used for Our Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans May Result in Increased Expenses and Reduce Our ProfitabilityChanges in our assumptions regarding discount rates, rates of return on plan assets, mortality rates, compensation levels and medical inflation may adversely affect our estimates of pension and other postretirement benefit plan experience, which could result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability.See Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We May Not be Able to Protect Our Intellectual Property and May be Subject to Infringement ClaimsContractual rights with third parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws may be insufficient to prevent third parties from infringing on or misappropriating our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. This may result in a significant diversion of resources, and our efforts may not prove successful. The inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete with other insurers and financial institutions.In addition, we may be subject to claims by third parties for:•patent, trademark or copyright infringement; •breach of patent, trademark or copyright license usage rights; or •misappropriation of trade secrets. Any such claims or resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. If we are found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. Alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly alternative. Any of these scenarios could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 58Table of ContentsRisks Related to Acquisitions, Dispositions or Other Structural ChangesWe Could Face Difficulties, Unforeseen Liabilities, Asset Impairments or Rating Actions Arising from Business Acquisitions or Integrating and Managing Growth of Such Businesses, Dispositions of Businesses, or Legal Entity ReorganizationsAcquisitions and dispositions of businesses, joint ventures, and other structural changes expose us to a number of risks arising from, among other factors: •potential difficulties achieving projected financial results, including the costs and benefits of integration or deconsolidation, due to macroeconomic, business, demographic, actuarial, regulatory, or political factors;•unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments; •the scope and duration of rights to indemnification for losses, and the recoverability of such indemnification; •the use of capital that could be used for other purposes;•liquidity requirements; •reactions of ratings agencies, shareholders, policyholders and contractholders, distributors, suppliers and other contractual counterparties; •regulatory requirements that could impact our operations or capital requirements;•changes in statutory or U.S. GAAP accounting principles, practices or policies; •dedication of management resources that could otherwise be deployed to other business, or distraction of key personnel from maximizing business value;•providing or receiving transition services that may disrupt operations or impose liabilities or restrictions on us;•loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting personnel;•loss of customers; •loss of distribution resources or suppliers;•inefficiencies as we integrate operations and address differences in cultural, management, information, compliance and financial systems and procedures; and•impacts on internal controls and procedures.The success with which we are able to conduct business through joint ventures, including exclusive or semi-exclusive distribution relationships, will depend on our ability to manage a variety of issues, including the following:•Entering into joint ventures with other companies or government sponsored entities in various international markets, including joint ventures where we have a lesser degree of control over the business operation, may expose us to additional operational, financial, legal or compliance risks.•Dependence on a joint venture counterparty for capital, product distribution, local market knowledge, or other resources, or dependence on a joint venture counterparty due to limits on our ownership levels or distribution exclusivity requirements under local laws or regulations, may reduce our control over, our financial returns from, or the value of a joint venture.•If we are unable to effectively cooperate with joint venture counterparties, or a joint venture counterparty fails to meet its obligations under the joint venture arrangement, encounters financial difficulty, or elects to alter, modify or terminate the relationship, we may be unable to exercise management control or influence over these joint venture operations and our ability to achieve our objectives and our results of operations may be negatively impacted, thereby impairing our investment.Reorganizing or consolidating the legal entities through which we conduct business may raise similar risks. The success with which we are able to realize benefits from legal entity reorganizations will also depend on our ability to manage a variety of issues, including regulatory approvals, modification of our operations and changes to our investment portfolios or derivatives hedging activities.Any of these risks, if realized, could prevent us from achieving the benefits we expect or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.59Table of ContentsSee “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Acquisitions and Dispositions.”We Are Subject to Risks Related to Our Separation from and Continuing Relationship with Brighthouse We remain subject to certain risks related to our separation from and continuing relationship with Brighthouse. There can be no assurance that we will realize any or all of the expected strategic, financial, operational or other benefits of the separation of Brighthouse, and a failure to realize expected benefits of the separation could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our agreements with Brighthouse, and the tax treatment of the separation, also expose us to risk. In addition, we cannot guarantee that Brighthouse will be successful as a standalone entity. If Brighthouse is not successful, plaintiffs could assert a variety of claims against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.See:•“Business — Regulation — Brighthouse Separation Tax Treatment” and •Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Governance RisksMetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors May Influence the Outcome of Stockholder Votes on Many Matters Due to the Voting Provisions of the MetLife Policyholder TrustAs a result of the voting provisions of the MetLife Policyholder Trust and the number of shares held by it, the Board of Directors may be able to influence the outcome of votes on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, excluding certain fundamental corporate actions, so long as the Trust holds a substantial number of shares of common stock. Additionally, if a vote concerns certain fundamental corporate actions, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by the Trust in proportion to instructions it receives from Trust beneficiaries, which will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually given by Trust beneficiaries. The winding up of the Trust must commence within 90 days after we notify the trustee that the Trust holds 10% or less of MetLife’s outstanding common stock. When the Trust is terminated and the shares of common stock then held in the Trust are distributed to the respective Trust beneficiaries, we may incur costs related to the termination of the Trust, such as regulatory filings and mailings to Trust beneficiaries or others, and afterward we may incur costs related to an increase in the number of shareholders, such as increased mailing and proxy solicitation expenses. After such a distribution, the addition of the respective Trust beneficiaries to our shareholder base with full voting rights may have a significant impact on matters brought to a stockholder vote and other aspects of our corporate governance. State Laws, Federal Laws, and Our Certificate of Incorporation Our By-Laws May Delay, Deter or Prevent Takeovers and Business Combinations that Stockholders Might Consider in Their Best InterestsState laws, federal laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. For instance, such restrictions may prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of MetLife, Inc.’s common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of MetLife, Inc.’s common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.60Table of ContentsAny person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face various regulatory obstacles, including:•applicable U.S. state or foreign insurance laws and regulations that may delay or impede a business combination involving us by prohibiting an entity from acquiring control of an insurance company without the prior approval of its domestic insurance regulator;•if the acquiring entity is a bank or non-bank SIFI, Dodd-Frank provisions that restrict or impede consolidations, mergers and acquisitions by systemically significant firms; •provisions of the Investment Company Act that require approval by the contract owners of our variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our variable contracts;•FINRA approval requirements for a change of control of any registered broker-dealer;•provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that may affect the ability of an “interested stockholder” to engage in certain business combinations; and•applicable antitrust and competition laws.In addition, provisions of MetLife, Inc.’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests or may otherwise adversely affect prevailing market prices for MetLife, Inc.’s common stock, including a prohibition on the calling of special meetings or action by written consent by stockholders and advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the Board of Directors and consideration of stockholder proposals. Additionally, stockholders may change MetLife, Inc.’s corporate governance through amendments to MetLife, Inc.’s certificate of incorporation or by-laws in ways that make it more difficult for the Board of Directors to protect stockholders’ interests, for example, if the Board of Directors is presented with an acquisition proposal that undervalues the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments