Item 1A. Risk Factors   In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Cautionary Statements” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 as filed with the SEC (2007 10-K) and the factors discussed in Part II, “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008 (June 2008 10-Q), which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described in our 2007 10-K and June 2008 10-Q are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results.  There have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in our 2007 10-K and June 2008 10-Q, except that we added the following risk factor regarding the potential effect of adverse conditions in the global economy and extreme disruption of financial markets on our results of operations:  Adverse conditions in the global economy and extreme disruption of financial markets could adversely affect our revenues, sources of liquidity, investment portfolio and our results of operations  As widely reported, worldwide financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruption recently, including volatility in the prices of securities and severely diminished liquidity and availability of credit. These extreme events, along with a recession, inflation or other unfavorable changes in economic conditions, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.  For example, higher unemployment rates as a result of a prolonged economic downturn could lead to lower enrollment in our employer group plans, lower enrollment in our non-employer individual plans and a higher number of employees opting out of our employer group plans. The adverse economic conditions could also cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. In addition, the economic downturn could negatively impact our employer group renewal prospects and our ability to increase premiums and could result in cancellation of products and services by our customers. All of these could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and premium and fee revenues and could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, a prolonged economic downturn could negatively impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers and therefore could adversely affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs.  A prolonged economic downturn could also adversely affect our revenues from governmental programs. During an economic downturn, state and federal budgets could be adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including the Medicare, Medicaid and State Medicaid Children’s Health Insurance Programs. A reduction in state Medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to payments already negotiated and/or received from the government and could adversely affect our revenues and financial results.  The current economic crisis is causing contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace. While our largest source of funding has historically been cash flow from operations, the commercial paper markets have been a source of liquidity for us and we continue to issue commercial paper, although at higher interest rates as a result of the diminished availability of credit. However, there can be no assurance that the commercial paper markets will continue to be a reliable source of short-term financing. If the commercial paper markets are     48    Table of Contents  unavailable or not cost effective, we would use cash on hand and/or draw on our contractually committed revolving credit facilities to refinance the commercial paper when it matures. However, there can be no assurance that, under extreme market conditions, such sources would be available or sufficient.  In addition, if the global capital markets continue to deteriorate, including if more financial institutions and companies file for bankruptcy protection, or are taken over by governmental authorities, and if the prices of securities continue to deteriorate and experience extreme volatility, our investment portfolio may be impacted. Some of our investments could further experience other-than-temporary declines in fair value, requiring us to record an impairment charge that could adversely impact our financial results.      Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds