Item 1A. Risk Factors   In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Cautionary Statements” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 as filed with the SEC (2007 10-K), which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described in our 2007 10-K and in this Item 1A are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results.  There have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in our 2007 10-K except that we have updated the following risk factor to provide additional details on our risks associated with our participation as a payer in various government health care programs, including our risks associated with CMS’s audits of selected Medicare health plans to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by care providers:  As a payer in various government health care programs, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments and audits that could adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and financial results.  We participate in various federal, state and local government health care coverage programs, including as a payer in Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, and various Medicaid programs and State Medicaid Children’s Health Insurance Programs (SCHIP), and receive revenues from these programs. These programs generally are subject to frequent changes, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, or increase our administrative or health care costs under such programs. Such changes have adversely affected our financial results and willingness to participate in such programs in the past, and may do so in the future.  Our participation in the Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, and various Medicaid programs and SCHIP is through bids that are submitted periodically. Revenues for these programs are dependent upon periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various methodologies. Funding for these government programs is dependent upon many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions at the federal or applicable state level, and general political issues and priorities. A reduction or less than expected increase in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies may adversely affect our revenues and financial results.  CMS uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding for Medicare programs, including determining payments by considering the risk status of our Medicare members as supported by provider medical record documentation. CMS audits the supporting documents and can revise payments based on the audit findings. CMS recently announced that it will perform audits of selected Medicare health plans each year to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by care providers. At least one of our plans has been selected for audit in CMS’s initial round of audits. These audits will involve a review of medical records maintained by providers, including those in and out of network, and may result in retrospective or prospective adjustments to payments made to health plans pursuant to CMS Medicare contracts. The first audits will focus on medical records supporting risk adjustment data for 2006 that were used to determine 2007 payment amounts. We are unable to predict the outcome of the audits. However, a material adjustment could have a material effect on our financial results.    49    Table of Contents Our ability to retain and acquire Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP enrollees is impacted by bids and plan designs submitted by us and our competitors. Under the Medicaid Managed Care program, state Medicaid agencies are periodically required by federal law to seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care Medicaid health programs. If we are not successful in obtaining renewals of state Medicaid Managed Care contracts, we risk losing the members that were enrolled in those Medicaid plans. Under the Medicare Part D program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a threshold, which is set by the government after our bids are submitted. If the enrollee premium is not below the government threshold, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and we will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. For example, we lost approximately 650,000 of our auto-enrolled low-income subsidy members in 2008 because our bids exceeded thresholds set by the government. In general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs, and other factors. In the event any of these assumptions are materially incorrect or our competitors’ bids and positioning are different than anticipated, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the Medicare program or otherwise, our financial results could be materially affected.      Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds