Item 1A—Risk Factors   The following is added to the risk factors set forth under Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors" in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007:   We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger with HRH.  The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to achieve the anticipated cost synergies and other strategic benefits from combining the businesses of the Company and HRH. We expect the Company to benefit from operational synergies resulting from the consolidation of capabilities and elimination of redundancies as well as greater efficiencies from increased scale. However, to realize these anticipated benefits, we must successfully combine the businesses of the Company and HRH. If we are not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated cost synergies and other strategic benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. We may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the transaction in the amounts and times projected for a number of reasons, including that the integration may take longer than anticipated, be more costly than anticipated or have unanticipated adverse results relating to the Company's or HRH's existing businesses.   The integration of the businesses and operations of the Company and HRH involves risks, and the failure to integrate successfully the businesses and operations in the expected time frame may adversely affect the Company's future results.  Historically, the Company and HRH have operated as independent companies, and they will continue to do so until the completion of the merger. The management of the Company may face significant challenges in consolidating the functions of the Company and HRH and their subsidiaries, integrating their technologies, organizations, procedures, policies and operations, addressing differences in the business cultures of the two companies, retaining key personnel and maintaining relationships with certain third parties. In connection with the merger, the Company expects to integrate certain operations of the Company and HRH, and the integration of the two companies will be complex and time consuming, and require substantial resources and effort. The integration process and other disruptions resulting from the merger may disrupt each company's ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our relationships with clients and customers of the Company and HRH and with other market participants, employees, regulators and others with whom we have business or other dealings. If the Company fails to manage the integration of these businesses effectively, its growth strategy and future profitability could be negatively affected, and it may fail to achieve the intended benefits of the merger.   The Company's incurrence of additional debt to pay a portion of the merger consideration will significantly increase the Company's interest expense, financial leverage and debt service requirements.  In connection with the merger, the Company expects to incur incremental borrowings of up to $2.25 billion (initially consisting of a $700 million term loan facility, a $300 million revolving credit facility and a $1.25 billion 364-day interim term loan facility). Incurrence of this new debt will significantly increase the combined company's leverage. Although management believes that the combined company's cash flows will be more than adequate to service this debt, there may be  54      Table of Contents  circumstances in which required payments of principal and/or interest on this new debt could adversely affect the combined company's cash flows and this level of indebtedness may:   •require the Company to dedicate a significant portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, to pursue other acquisitions or investments in new technologies, to pay dividends and for general corporate purposes;  •increase the Company's vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, including increases in interest rates if the borrowings bear interest at variable rates;  •limit the Company's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes or challenges relating to its business and industry; and  •put the Company at a competitive disadvantage against competitors who have less indebtedness or are in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources.  The terms of the proposed financing also include certain limitations on the amount and type of investments that may be made and the amount of dividends that may be declared. In addition, any borrowings may be made at variable interest rates, making the Company vulnerable to increases in interest rates generally.  In addition, to the extent that the credit ratings of the Company are below pre-merger levels, borrowing costs may increase (including with respect to the Company's credit facilities and outstanding notes), and to the extent that the combined company's credit ratings were to fall below investment grade, the terms of the financing obligations could include restrictions, such as affirmative and negative covenants (including restricting the Company's ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt or sell assets), conditions to borrowing, subsidiary guarantees and stock pledges. A failure to comply with these restrictions could result in a default under the financing obligations or could require the Company to obtain waivers from its lenders for failure to comply with these restrictions. The occurrence of a default that remains uncured or the inability to secure a necessary consent or waiver could cause the Company's obligations with respect to its debt to be accelerated and have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.       Item 2—Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds