Item 1A—Risk Factors   The following is added to the risk factors described in Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors" included in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, as updated by Item 1A "Risk Factors" of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008.   If we are unable to repay or refinance the interim credit facility, it could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition.  In connection with the HRH acquisition we entered into a 364-day interim credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion. Failure to repay or refinance the interim credit facility at or prior to maturity would constitute an event of default under the interim credit agreement and would trigger cross default provisions in our other debt instruments and agreements, potentially causing such other debt to become immediately due and payable. We will seek to refinance the interim credit facility by issuing new debt in one or more series in an aggregate principal amount of up to $1.0 billion. However, our access to capital is affected by prevailing conditions in the financial and capital markets and other factors beyond our control, and given the current uncertainty in the capital markets, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. If we are not able to issue new debt to repay the interim credit facility, we may have to use other sources of cash such as drawing down on our current revolving credit facility, future cash flows or cash on hand. The use of our revolving credit facility and other cash resources would restrict our financial flexibility and our ability to use such cash for other purposes and could have a significant negative impact on our liquidity.   Our business may be adversely affected by an overall decline in economic activity.  Our business and operating results may be affected by worldwide economic conditions. The demand for property and casualty insurance may be affected by the overall level of economic activity, potentially affecting both the commissions and fees generated by our brokerage business. As a result, current global economic conditions, including the current credit crisis coupled with declining consumer and business confidence, increasing energy prices, and other challenges, may have a negative impact on the buying behavior of some of our clients as their businesses suffer from these conditions. In particular, financial institutions, construction, aviation, and logistics businesses such as marine cargo appear most likely to be affected. Further, the global economic downturn is also negatively affecting some of the international economies that have supported the strong growth in our International operations. Our employee benefits practice could also be affected adversely as businesses continue to downsize during this period of economic turmoil. In addition, a growing number of insolvencies associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business. While it is difficult to predict the consequences of any further deterioration in global economic conditions on our business, any significant reduction or delay by our clients in purchasing insurance or making payment of premiums could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.       Item 2—Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds