Item 1A — Risk Factors  The following is a material change to the risk factors described in Part I, Item 1A ‘Risk Factors’, included in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011:  If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to record significant charges to earnings. We expect that we will record a goodwill impairment charge associated with our North America unit during the fourth quarter of 2012 which may be material.  We have a substantial amount of goodwill on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions we have completed. We review goodwill for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred.  Application of the impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets, liabilities and goodwill to reporting units and determination of fair value of each reporting unit. A significant deterioration in a key estimate or assumption or a less significant deterioration to a combination of assumptions or the sale of a part of a reporting unit could result in an impairment charge in the future, which could have a significant adverse impact on our reported earnings.  Our annual goodwill impairment analysis is performed each year at October 1. While the Company has not yet completed its annual goodwill impairment testing, we expect that the fair values of the Global and International reporting units will be determined to be significantly in excess of their carrying values when the annual test is completed. However since our last annual impairment test, our North American reporting unit has continued to be hampered by the effect of the soft economy in the U.S. and continues to face a challenging economic environment, and as a result we expect that we will record a goodwill impairment charge associated with our North American reporting unit during the fourth quarter of 2012, and that the amount of this non-cash, one-time charge may be material. The balance of goodwill in the North America reporting unit as of September 30, 2012 is $1,782 million. For further information on our testing of goodwill impairment, see ‘Critical Accounting Estimates’ under Item 2, Managements’ Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  There have been no other material changes to the risk factors described in the 2011 Form 10-K which are hereby incorporated by reference.  Item 2 — Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds