Item 1A — Risk FactorsFor a discussion of potential risks or uncertainties, please see 'Part I - Item 1A - Risk Factors' in the Company's 2014 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition please see 'Forward-Looking Statements' herein. There are no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in 'Part I - Item 1A - Risk Factors' in the Company's 2014 Form 10-K except as disclosed below:Risks Related to the Merger with Towers Watson The Merger Agreement may be terminated in accordance with its terms and the Merger may not be completed.The Merger Agreement contains a number of conditions that must be fulfilled to complete the Merger. The conditions to the closing of the Merger may not be fulfilled and, accordingly, the Merger may not be completed. In addition, if the Merger is not completed by March 31, 2016, either Willis or Towers Watson may choose not to proceed with the Merger. In addition, Willis or Towers Watson may elect to terminate the Merger Agreement in certain other circumstances, and the parties can mutually decide to terminate the Merger Agreement at any time prior to the consummation of the Merger, before or after shareholder or stockholder approval, as applicable.The Merger Agreement contains provisions that restrict Willis’ ability to pursue alternatives to the Merger and, in specified circumstances, could require Willis to pay Towers Watson a termination fee of up to $255 million.Under the Merger Agreement, Willis is restricted, subject to certain exceptions, from soliciting, initiating, knowingly encouraging, knowingly facilitating, discussing or negotiating, or furnishing information with regard to, any inquiry, proposal or offer for a competing acquisition proposal from any person or entity. If the Willis board of directors (after consultation with Willis' financial advisors and legal counsel) determines that such proposal is more favorable to the Willis shareholders than the Merger and the Willis board of directors recommends such proposal to the Willis shareholders, Towers Watson may be entitled to terminate the Merger Agreement. Under such circumstances, Willis may be required to pay Towers Watson a termination fee equal to $255,000,000. These provisions could discourage a third party that may have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of Willis from considering or proposing that acquisition, even if such third party were prepared to enter into a transaction that would be more favorable to Willis and its shareholders than the Merger. Additionally, in the event the Merger Agreement is terminated due to the failure of the Willis shareholders to approve the Willis share issuance proposal at the Willis extraordinary general meeting of shareholders or Towers Watson terminates the Merger Agreement due to a breach by Willis which would result in the conditions to the consummation of the Merger not being satisfied, Willis must reimburse Towers Watson for any and all out-of-pocket fees and expenses up to $45,000,000.While the Merger is pending and for a period following the Merger, Willis will be subject to business uncertainties that could adversely affect its business and operations. Uncertainties about the effect of the Merger on employees, customers, suppliers, business partners and other persons with whom Willis or Towers Watson has a business relationship may have an adverse effect on Willis, Towers Watson and/or the combined company. In connection with the pendency of the Merger, as well as during times of significant change and uncertainty such as following the Merger, it is possible that some customers, suppliers, business partners and other persons with whom Willis or Towers Watson has a business relationship may delay or defer certain business decisions or decide to terminate, modify or renegotiate their relationships with Willis or Towers Watson, as the case may be, decide not to conduct business with either Willis or Towers Watson or take other actions as a result of the Merger, which could negatively affect the combined company’s and/or Willis’ or Towers Watson’s respective revenues, earnings and cash flows, as well as the market price of Willis ordinary shares or shares of Towers Watson common stock, regardless of whether the Merger is completed. Willis' ability to raise additional capital through the debt markets, and the associated borrowing costs, may also be negatively impacted. Any such disruptions could limit the combined company’s ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger.These uncertainties about the effect of the Merger may also impair Willis’ and Towers Watson’s ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the Merger is consummated and for a period of time thereafter. Employee retention may be 119Table of ContentsWillis Group Holdings plcchallenging during the pendency of the Merger, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles. If key employees depart, the business of Willis or Towers Watson, as applicable, prior to the Merger, and the business of the combined company following the Merger, could be seriously harmed. If key employees join a competitor or form a new competitor, existing and potential clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of the services of Willis, Towers Watson or the combined company, as applicable. In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts Towers Watson and Willis from taking specified actions until the Merger occurs without the consent of the other party. These restrictions may prevent Willis or Towers Watson from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the Merger. The adverse effects of the pendency of the Merger could be exacerbated by any delays in completion of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement. Legal proceedings in connection with the Merger, the outcomes of which are uncertain, could delay or prevent the completion of the Merger.Since the announcement of the Merger Agreement on June 30, 2015, at least four putative class actions have been filed against Towers Watson, the members of its board of directors, Willis and Merger Sub challenging the proposed Merger. The actions allege that the Towers Watson board of directors breached their fiduciary duties to the Towers Watson stockholders in connection with the Merger and that Towers Watson, Willis and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ breaches of fiduciary duties. Plaintiffs claim that the Merger involves an unfair price, an inadequate sales process, self-dealing, unreasonable deal protection devices and inadequate disclosures. Among other remedies, the plaintiffs seek to enjoin the Merger. Such legal proceedings could delay or prevent the Merger from becoming effective within the agreed upon timeframe.Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact Willis and its future operations. If the Merger is not completed for any reason, Willis may be subjected to a number of material risks. The price of Willis ordinary shares may decline to the extent that their current market prices reflect a market assumption that the Merger will be completed. In addition, some costs related to the Merger must be paid by Willis whether or not the Merger is completed. Furthermore, Willis may experience negative reactions from its shareholders, customers and employees.The market price for Willis ordinary shares following the closing may be affected by factors different from those that historically have affected Willis ordinary shares.Upon completion of the Merger, holders of Willis ordinary shares will become holders of ordinary shares in the combined company. The results of operation of the combined company may also be affected by factors different from those currently affecting Willis on a standalone basis. Willis may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Merger or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. The combined company may also encounter significant difficulties in integrating the two businesses.The ability of Willis to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction will depend, to a large extent, on the combined company’s ability to integrate the two businesses. The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, Willis will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating their business practices and operations. The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, would restrict the realization of the full-expected benefits. The failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses and to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction could cause an interruption of or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined company and could adversely affect the results of operations of the combined company.In addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management’s attention. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others:•the diversion of management’s attention to integration matters;•difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from the combination;•difficulties in the integration of operations and systems;•conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the two companies;120Table of Contents Other information•difficulties in the assimilation of employees;•difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company;•difficulties in establishing effective uniform controls, systems, procedures and policies for the combined company; •challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers;•challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; and•coordinating a geographically dispersed organization.Many of these factors will be outside of the control of Willis or Towers Watson and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of the combined company. In addition, even if the operations of the businesses of Willis and Towers Watson are integrated successfully, the full benefits of the transaction may not be realized, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are expected. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of Willis and Towers Watson. All of these factors could cause dilution to the earnings per share of the combined company, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the transaction, and negatively impact the price of the combined company’s ordinary shares. As a result, we cannot assure you that the combination of Willis and Towers Watson will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the transaction.Willis has incurred and will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of the Merger.Willis has incurred and will incur substantial expenses in connection with completing the Merger, and Willis also expects to incur substantial expenses in connection with coordinating the businesses, operations, policies and procedures of Willis and Towers Watson over a period of time following the completion of the Merger. A portion of the transaction costs related to the Merger will be incurred regardless of whether the Merger is completed. While Willis and Towers Watson have assumed that a certain level of transaction and coordination expenses will be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond Willis’ control that could affect the total amount or the timing of these transaction and coordination expenses. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses may exceed the costs historically borne by Willis. These costs could adversely affect the financial condition and results of operation of Willis prior to the Merger and of the combined company following the Merger. Willis’ status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes could be affected by a change in law and the Merger is conditioned upon such status not changing as a result of such a change in law.Willis believes that, under current law, it is treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. However, changes to the inversion rules in Code Section 7874 or the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder or other IRS guidance could adversely affect Willis’ status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, and any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application to Willis, Towers Watson, their respective shareholders and affiliates, and/or the Merger. In addition, recent legislative proposals have aimed to expand the scope of U.S. corporate tax residence, and such legislation, if passed, could have an adverse effect on Willis. For example, in February 2015, the President of the United States proposed legislation which would amend the anti-inversion rules to apply to a broader range of transactions. Although its application is limited to transactions closing after 2015, no assurance can be given that such proposal would not be changed in the legislative process and be enacted to apply to prior transactions. In addition, certain members of Congress have introduced similar legislation. If such legislation were to apply to the Merger, it could cause Willis to be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes as of or after the Merger. Furthermore, in September 2014, the U.S. Treasury Department and the IRS issued additional guidance stating that they intend to issue additional regulations under Section 7874. The application of such regulations to the Merger is not clear and no assurance can be given that such regulations will not cause Willis to be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes as of or after the Merger. It is a condition to each party’s obligation to complete the Merger that Willis not be treated a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes as of or after the closing date of the Merger as a result of a change in law prior to the closing date of the Merger.121Table of ContentsWillis Group Holdings plcRisks Relating to Our Business and the Insurance IndustryWe face certain risks in connection with the acquisition of the outstanding shares of Gras Savoye.On June 25, 2015, pursuant to the firm offer that we submitted in April, we entered into a share purchase agreement to purchase the outstanding share capital of our associate, Gras Savoye. The transaction is expected to close on or about December 31, 2015, subject to customary regulatory requirements. There are a number of risks and uncertainties relating to the transaction. For example, the transaction may not be completed, or may not be completed in the time frame anticipated. Even if completed, the success of the transaction will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively integrate Gras Savoye into our business and to retain key Gras Savoye employees. Additionally, we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction or the benefits may take longer to realize than expected, including the anticipated scale and revenue synergies of the combined businesses, as well as our ability to access potential high-growth markets. We will incur further debt in order to finance the acquisition which could adversely affect our cash flows and financial flexibility. Finally, we also cannot assure that Gras Savoye’s systems and control have prevented or will prevent any violations of any applicable laws or regulations. Any failure to timely realize anticipated benefits from the acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. For more information regarding the risks we face by conducting business in other countries, see the risk factors in “Part I - Item A- Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those entitled “—Legal and Regulatory Risks - Our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be materially adversely affected by actual and potential claims, lawsuits, investigations or proceedings” and “International Risks - In conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, market, nationalization, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries.”Our ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational changes could impact our business results.We have recently announced several significant business and organizational changes, including the proposed Merger with Towers Watson, the agreement to purchase the remaining equity of our associate, Gras Savoye, our acquisition of Miller Insurance Services, LLP, and our ongoing multi-year operational improvement program. In addition, as we have experienced, competition to retain or recruit talent is heightened in a challenging rate environment or during a time when the Company is experiencing significant change. Effectively managing these organizational changes is critical to retaining talent, servicing clients and our business success overall. The failure to effectively manage such risks could adversely impact our business or financial results.International risksOur significant non-US operations, particularly our London market operations, expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business.A significant portion of our operations is conducted outside the United States. Accordingly, we are subject to legal, economic and market risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into pounds sterling or dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; hyperinflation in certain foreign countries; imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments; and the requirement of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws.We report our operating results and financial condition in US dollars. Our US operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in US dollars. In our London market operations, however, we earn revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost entirely incurred in pounds sterling. Outside the United States and our London market operations, we predominantly generate revenue and expenses in the local currency. The table gives an approximate analysis of revenues and expenses by currency in 2014.  USDollars PoundsSterling  Euros OthercurrenciesRevenues58% 8% 13% 21%Expenses46% 25% 9% 20%Because of devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into US dollars, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to 122Table of Contents Other informationeconomic exposure. Furthermore, the mismatch between pounds sterling revenues and expenses, together with any net sterling balance sheet position we hold in our US dollar denominated London market operations, creates an exchange exposure.For example, as the pound sterling strengthens, the US dollars required to be translated into pounds sterling to cover the net sterling expenses increase, which then causes our results to be negatively impacted. However, any net sterling asset we are holding will be more valuable when translated into US dollars. Given these facts, the strength of the pound sterling relative to the US dollar has in the past had a material negative impact on our reported results. This risk could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flow and results of operations in the future. Additionally, as at June 30, 2015, we are using the SICAD I rate of approximately 13 Venezuelan Bolivars per US Dollar to report our Venezuelan financial position, following devaluation from the official rate of approximately six Bolivars per US dollar. We cannot predict whether there will be a further devaluation of the Venezuelan currency or whether the use of the SICAD I rate will continue to be supported. As at June 30, 2014 we have approximately $25 million of net monetary assets that are denominated in the Venezuela Bolivar.Where needed, we deploy a hedging strategy to mitigate part of our operating exposure to exchange rate movements, but such mitigating attempts may not be successful. For more information on this strategy, see Part I Item 1 - 'Note 9 Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities'.Item 2 — Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds