ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSExcept as described below, there are no material changes from risk factors as previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 29, 2016. We urge you to read the risk factors contained in our Annual Report.The vote in the United Kingdom to leave the European Union could adversely affect us.On an annual basis, approximately 20% of our revenue is generated in the U.K., although only about 12% of revenues are denominated in Pounds sterling as much of the insurance business is transacted in U.S. dollars. Approximately 20% of our expenses are denominated in Pounds sterling. In a referendum held in June 2016, a majority of voters in the U.K. voted in favor of the U.K. leaving the E.U. At this time, we are not able to predict the impact that the result of this vote will have on the economy; economic, regulatory and political stability; and market conditions in Europe, including in the U.K., or on Pounds sterling, Euro or other European currencies, but any such impacts and others we cannot currently anticipate could materially adversely affect us and our operations. Among other things, we could experience: lower growth in the region due to indecision as businesses hold off on generating new projects or due to adverse market conditions; and reduced reported revenues and earnings because foreign currencies may translate into fewer U.S. dollars due to the fact that we translate revenue denominated in non-U.S. currency such as Pounds sterling into U.S. dollars for our financial statements. In addition, there can be no assurance that our hedging strategies will be effective.It is expected that the British government will begin negotiating the terms of the U.K.'s future relationship with the E.U. over the next two years. Although it is unknown and we cannot anticipate what those terms will be, they may result in greater restrictions on business between the U.K. and E.U. countries and increased regulatory complexities. There is also uncertainty regarding how the U.K.'s access to the E.U. Single Market and the wider trading, legal, regulatory, tax and labor environments, especially in the U.K. and E.U., will be impacted, including the resulting impact on our business and that of our clients. Any such changes may adversely affect our operations and financial results. For example, any changes to the passporting or other regulations relating to doing business in various E.U. countries by relying on a regulatory permission in the U.K. (or doing business in the U.K. by relying on a regulatory permission in an E.U. country) could increase our costs of doing business, or our ability to do so. As another example, changes in labor laws may impact the ability to hire and retain non-U.K. staff in the U.K. or U.K. staff in the E.U. In addition, the outcome of the referendum has created uncertainty with regard to the regulation of data protection in the U.K. Among other things, it is unclear whether the U.K. will enact legislation similar to the pending European General Data Protection Regulation post-Brexit, and how data transfers to and from the U.K. will be regulated. A change in such regulations, or other regulations, could increase our costs of doing business, or in some cases our ability to do business, and materially adversely impact our operations and financial results.Data security breaches or improper disclosure of confidential company or personal data could result in material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability.We depend on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our alliance partners and clients. Additionally, one of our significant responsibilities is to maintain the security and privacy of our clients’ confidential and proprietary information and the personal data of their customers and/or employees. Our information systems, and those of our third-party service providers and vendors, are vulnerable to an increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. Computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards, as well as improper or inadvertent staff behavior, could expose confidential company and personal data systems and information to security breaches.With respect to our commercial arrangements with third-party vendors, we have processes designed to require third-party IT outsourcing, offsite storage and other vendors to agree to maintain certain standards with respect to the storage, protection and transfer of confidential, personal and proprietary information. However, we remain at risk of a data breach due to the intentional or unintentional non-compliance by a vendor’s employee or agent, the breakdown of a vendor’s data protection processes, or a cyber-attack on a vendor’s information systems.Unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our information technology networks and systems or our information through fraud or other means of deceiving our colleagues, third-party service providers or vendors. The methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems are also constantly changing and evolving; continue to become more advanced and complex; and may be difficult to anticipate or detect. We have implemented and regularly review and update processes and procedures to protect against unauthorized access to or use of secured data and to prevent data loss. However, the ever-evolving threats mean we and our third-party service providers and vendors must continually evaluate and adapt our respective systems and processes, and there is no guarantee that they will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches or misuses of data. Any future significant compromise or breach of our data security, whether external or internal, or misuse of client, colleague, supplier or Company data, could result in additional significant costs, lost revenue opportunities, fines, lawsuits, and damage to our reputation.We are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the European Union Directive on Data Protection and various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other individually identifiable information. Laws and regulations in this area are evolving and generally becoming more stringent. Further, a U.K. exit from the E.U. will increase uncertainty regarding applicable laws and regulations pending more clarity on the terms of that exit. If any person, including any of our colleagues, fails to comply with, disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to monetary damages, fines or criminal prosecution. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through systems failure, accident, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for our clients, whether by our colleagues or third parties, could result in significant additional expenses (including expenses relating to notification of data security breaches and costs of credit monitoring services), negative publicity, legal liability and damage to our reputation, as well as require substantial resources and effort of management, thereby diverting management’s focus and resources from business operations.We have experienced a number of data incidents, resulting from human error as well as attempts at unauthorized access to our systems, none of which to our knowledge have been material to our business or our clients. We maintain policies, procedures and technological safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of this information. However, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of data security breaches, improper access to or disclosure of confidential company or personally identifiable information. Our technology may fail to adequately secure the private information we hold and protect it from theft, computer viruses, hackers or inadvertent loss. In such circumstances, we may be held liable to our clients, which could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Further, data privacy, information security, identity theft, and related computer and internet issues are matters of growing public concern and are subject to frequently changing rules and regulations. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing customer expectations and legal or regulatory requirements in this area, including changing legal or regulatory requirements that may be developed or revised due to the vote in the U.K. to leave the E.U., could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation or business.ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS