ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  The additional risk factors presented below should be considered in addition to the risk factors previously disclosed in our 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The level of provision for loan losses in our mortgage loan portfolio may increase as a result of trends in the macro-economic environment  A substantial portion of our asset portfolio is composed of loans secured by first lien residential mortgages and second lien mortgages (home equity loans and home equity lines of credit). The overall performance of these assets can be affected by the macro trends of the economy in general and the residential real estate market, such as home price depreciation or slowing appreciation, rising mortgage rates and tighter mortgage lending guidelines across the industry. Such performance can also be impacted by our mix of first lien and second lien mortgages and factors particular to a given borrower. We expect nonperforming loan levels to increase over time due to the deteriorating conditions in the residential real estate and credit markets. We increased the provision for loan losses for our first and second lien mortgages in recent periods based on the seasoning of our portfolio and higher delinquencies and charge-offs compared to 2006. Instability in the consumer credit markets and credit trends may require additional increases in our provision for loan losses, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.  We may experience additional write downs in our securities portfolio  In the third quarter of 2007, we incurred losses in our securities portfolio of $197.6 million, pretax. These losses were confined to our asset back securities portfolio, primarily CDO and second lien securities. We believe that continued deterioration in the residential real estate and credit markets may result in additional write downs of these and other securities in our portfolio. In addition, recent market volatility has made it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities, particularly our CDO and second lien mortgage backed assets. The methodologies that we use in valuing individual securities are based on observable market data, to the extent such data is readily available. In the absence of observable market data, our valuations are based on internal models that require judgments by management for a variety of estimates and assumptions which are inherently uncertain. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. In addition, at the time of any sale of these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower     77     than their current fair market values. Finally, many of these investments are subject to rapid changes in value caused by sudden developments, such as rating agency downgrades, which could adversely affect their fair market value. Any of these factors could require us to take additional write downs in the value of our securities portfolio, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.   ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS