ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS EXTERNAL RISKS Volatile global commodity pricing fluctuations beyond Occidental’s control strongly affect its revenues, profitability, operating cash flow and future growth rate. As discussed in the section entitled "Derivative Activities and Market Risk — Commodity Price Risk — Production Hedges," Occidental’s financial results typically correlate closely to the price it obtains for its products in the global markets in which they compete. Oil and gas price changes also impact production and reserves because production-sharing contracts (PSCs) typically include terms that adjust Occidental’s share of production when prices change, and price changes also affect the profitability of production and the economic recoverability of reserves. Historically, prices for Occidental’s products have been volatile. A significant portion of the oil Occidental produces is sour crude, and the prices for sour crude tend to be lower. In addition, the price differential between sweet and sour crude varies based on their respective supply and demand dynamics. Drilling and exploration activity levels, inventory levels, production disruptions, the actions of OPEC (increasing prices or limiting Occidental's production), price speculation and geophysical and technical limitations affect the global and, in some cases, local short-term and long-term supply of oil and gas and interact to contribute to price volatility. Because of the long lead times associated with drilling and exploration projects, Occidental may commit significant amounts of capital to oil and gas projects and cannot be certain of the level of demand that will exist when it finishes a project. The health of the global economy, alternative sources of energy, such as coal, and efforts at improving or implementing efficient consumption can also affect the demand for oil and gas. Demand for Occidental’s chemical products correlates most strongly with the health of the global economy. Occidental also depends on feedstocks and energy to produce chemicals, both of which are commodities subject to significant price fluctuations.   Occidental’s businesses operate in a highly competitive environment, which affects its profitability and its ability to grow production and replace oil and gas reserves. Occidental’s future oil and gas production and its profitability depend, in part, on its ability to acquire or find additional reserves at costs below the price at which it can sell the oil and gas it produces from them, after operating costs. Occidental can acquire reserves by purchasing existing production assets or by acquiring exploration rights and successfully drilling wells that produce hydrocarbons in commercial quantities. Industry competition for reserves may influence Occidental to:    Ø   shift toward higher risk exploration activity;      6      Ø   pay more for reinvestment opportunities;     Ø   purchase lesser quality properties; or     Ø   delay expected production activities.    Rising exploration and development activity in the industry generally increases the demand and, therefore, the costs of oil and gas services. Participants in the chemical industry compete primarily based on price and the industry consists of many domestic and foreign competitors. In addition, the industry has historically experienced over-expansion when prices rise. In both industries, Occidental uses nonproprietary technology and business management techniques, which limits its ability to achieve significant comparative production efficiencies.   Occidental’s businesses may experience catastrophic occurrences. Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, occur regularly and may occasionally affect Occidental’s businesses. In addition, well blowouts and oilfield fires, armed conflicts, civil unrest and industrial accidents may occur and may affect Occidental’s businesses. Occidental maintains insurance against a number of these risks; however, it partially self-insures and insurance may not always provide the coverage expected or desired due to contractual limitations, unavailability, cost of insurance and the insurers' financial health.   Varied governmental and political actions affect Occidental’s results of operations. The transnational character of Occidental’s oil and gas business subjects it to the decisions of many governments and political interests. As a result, Occidental faces increased risks of:    Ø   changes in laws and regulations, including those related to taxes, royalty rates, permitted production rates, import, export and use of products, and environmental protection;     Ø   expropriation or reduction of entitlements to produce hydrocarbons; and     Ø   refusal to extend exploration, production or development contracts.    For example, the Government of Ecuador has threatened to terminate Occidental’s Participation Contract for Block 15. See ”MD&A — Oil and Gas Segment — Business Review — Latin America — Ecuador.” When Occidental acquired Vintage Petroleum, Inc. (Vintage) at the end of January 2006, it gained operations in Argentina and Bolivia. Beginning in 2001, Argentina increased export taxes on oil and implemented stricter foreign exchange controls, mandatory export proceeds repatriation laws, export limitations and domestic sales price caps, some of which have since expired. In 2005, Bolivia approved a hydrocarbons bill that introduced a significant new production tax. Actions such as these may affect Occidental’s results of operations, financial position or the quantity of its oil and gas reserves. Occidental operates some of its oil and gas business in countries that occasionally have experienced political instability, which increases Occidental’s risk of loss or delayed production associated with armed conflict, civil unrest, security problems, restrictions on production equipment imports and sanctions that prevent continued operations. Occidental may face the risk of increased costs if it is perceived not to be respecting or advancing the economic and social progress of the communities in which it operates. Since Occidental’s assets are long-lived, the magnitude of these risks can vary over the time it operates in a country.   Occidental faces risks associated with its mergers, acquisitions and divestitures. Occidental periodically acquires and divests oil and gas reserves and chemical facilities. These activities carry risks that Occidental may:    Ø   not fully realize the anticipated benefits due to delay, miscalculation or changed circumstances;     Ø   bear greater-than-expected integration costs or difficulties;     Ø   be unable to successfully manage regulatory, tax or legal issues it assumes or retains;     Ø   experience lower stock values based on the market’s evaluation of the activity;     Ø   assume or retain liabilities that are greater than anticipated; or     Ø   be unable to resell acquired assets as planned or at prices planned.    Additionally, the assets Occidental acquires may not be as profitable as its current asset base.   Certain of Occidental’s major chemical products are coproduced in a fixed ratio, which limits its ability to exploit pricing opportunities. Because chlorine and caustic soda must be produced together in a fixed ratio, an imbalance in demand between the products ultimately requires Occidental to reduce output or cut prices to restore demand balance. Either action limits Occidental’s profits on these commodities.   Technological developments may reduce the demand for oil and gas. Rising oil and gas prices create incentives to find alternative energy sources and energy conservation measures that could replace or reduce oil and gas consumption over the long term.   7   INTERNAL RISKS Occidental may incur significant costs in exploration or development efforts, which may prove unsuccessful or unprofitable. Occidental may misinterpret geologic or engineering data, which may result in significant losses on unsuccessful exploration or development drilling efforts. Occidental bears the risks of project delays and cost overruns due to unexpected geologic conditions, equipment failures, equipment delivery delays, accidents, adverse weather, government and joint venture partner approval delays, construction or start-up delays and other associated risks. Such risks may delay expected production and/or increase the costs of production.   Inadequate cost containment could reduce Occidental’s competitiveness. Occidental works to minimize the costs associated with its businesses but the impact of its efforts may not be sufficient to offset any negative effects related to the main elements of cost, which consist of reserve acquisition costs for oil and gas and feedstock and energy costs for chemicals.   CROSS-REFERENCES TO OTHER RISK DISCUSSIONS Additional risks related to competition, foreign operations, litigation, environmental matters, derivatives and market risks, and oil and gas reserve estimation fluctuations are discussed elsewhere in this report under the headings: BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES — “Oil & Gas Operations – Competition and Sales and Marketing,” “Chemical Operations – Competition;" MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — “Oil & Gas Segment – Business Review – Proved Reserves Additions,” “Oil & Gas Segment – Industry Outlook,” “Chemical Segment – Business Environment,” “Chemical Segment – Industry Outlook,” “Lawsuits, Claims, Commitments, Contingencies and Related Matters,” “Environmental Liabilities and Expenditures,” “Foreign Investments,” “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates,” and “Derivative Activities and Market Risk.” ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS