ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Volatile global commodity pricing strongly affects Occidental’s results of operations. Occidental’s financial results typically correlate closely to the volatile prices it obtains for its commodities. Drilling and exploration activity levels, inventory levels, production disruptions, the actions of OPEC, competing fuel prices, prevailing currency exchange rates, price speculation, changes in consumption patterns, weather and geophysical and technical limitations and other matters discussed in this item affect the supply of oil and gas and contribute to price volatility. Demand and, consequently, the price obtained for Occidental’s chemical products correlate strongly to the health of the United States and global economy, as well as chemical industry expansion cycles. Occidental also depends on feedstocks and energy to produce chemicals, which are commodities subject to significant price fluctuations. Occidental’s oil and gas business operates in highly competitive environments, which affect, among other things, its profitability and its ability to grow production and replace reserves. Occidental’s future oil and gas production and its results of operations depend, in part, on its ability to profitably acquire, develop or find additional reserves. Occidental replaces significant amounts of its reserves through acquisitions and large development projects. Occidental has many competitors, some of which are larger and better funded, may be willing to accept greater risks or have special competencies. Industry competition for reserves may influence Occidental to:    Ø  shift toward higher risk exploration activity;   Ø  pay more for investment opportunities;   Ø  purchase properties or take on projects of lesser quality; or   Ø  delay expected reserve replacement efforts. In addition, rising exploration and development activity in the industry generally increases the competition for and costs of, and delays access to, services and supplies needed for production. Governmental actions and political instability may affect Occidental’s results of operations. Occidental’s businesses are subject to the decisions of many governments and political interests. As a result, Occidental faces risks of:    Ø  changes in laws and regulations, including those related to taxes, royalty rates, permitted production rates, import, export and use of products, environmental protection, climate change and energy security, all of which may increase costs or reduce the demand for Occidental's products;   Ø  expropriation or reduction of entitlements to produce hydrocarbons; and   Ø  refusal to extend or grant, or delay in the extension or grant of, exploration, production or development contracts. Occidental may experience adverse consequences, such as risk of loss or production limitations, because certain of its foreign operations are located in countries occasionally affected by political instability, armed conflict, terrorism, insurgency, civil unrest, security problems, restrictions on production equipment imports and sanctions that prevent continued operations. Exposure to such risks may increase as a greater percentage of Occidental’s future oil and gas production comes from foreign sources. Occidental’s businesses may experience uninsured catastrophic events. The occurrence of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, and events such as well blowouts, oilfield fires, industrial accidents and other events that cause operations to cease may affect Occidental’s businesses. Third-party insurance may not provide adequate coverage or Occidental may be self-insured with respect to the related losses. Occidental’s reserves are based on professional judgments and may be subject to revision. Calculations of reserves depend on estimates concerning reservoir characteristics and recoverability, as well as oil and gas prices, capital costs and operating costs. If Occidental were required to make unanticipated significant negative reserve revisions, its prospects and stock price could be adversely affected. Occidental may incur significant losses in exploration or cost overruns in development efforts. Occidental may misinterpret geologic or engineering data, encounter unexpected geologic conditions or find reserves of disappointing quality or quantity, which may result in significant losses on exploration or development efforts. Occidental bears the risks of project delays and cost overruns due to escalating costs for materials and labor, equipment failures, approval delays, construction delays, border disputes and other associated risks. Occidental faces risks associated with its mergers, acquisitions and divestitures. Occidental’s merger, acquisition and divestiture activities carry risks that it may: not fully realize anticipated benefits due to delays; miscalculate reserves or production or experience changed circumstances; bear unexpected integration costs or experience other integration difficulties; experience share price declines based on the market’s evaluation of the activity; assume or retain liabilities that are greater than anticipated; or be unable to resell acquired assets as planned or at planned prices. 5   Information related to competition, foreign operations, litigation, environmental matters, derivatives and market risks, and oil and gas reserve estimation fluctuations appears under the headings: “Business and Properties — Oil & Gas Operations — Competition and Sales and Marketing,” “MD&A — Oil & Gas Segment — Business Review ,” and “— Industry Outlook” and “Chemical Segment — Business Review,” and “ — Industry Outlook,” “Lawsuits, Claims, Commitments, Contingencies and Related Matters,” “Environmental Liabilities and Expenditures,” “Foreign Investments” and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates,” and “Derivative Activities and Market Risk.” ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS