ITEM 1A. Risk Factors    Factors that could have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition are outlined below. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem insignificant may also impair our business or results of operations as they become known facts or as facts and circumstances change. Any of the risks described below could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.    Business    Our financial condition could be adversely affected by the occurrence of natural and man-made disasters.  We have substantial exposure to losses resulting from natural disasters, man-made catastrophes, and other catastrophic events. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, typhoons, earthquakes, hailstorms, explosions, severe winter weather, fires, war, acts of terrorism, political instability, and other natural or man-made disasters. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and our losses from catastrophes could be substantial. In addition, climate conditions, primarily global temperatures, may be increasing, which may in the future increase the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes and the losses resulting there from. The occurrence of claims from catastrophic events could result in substantial volatility in our results of operations or financial condition for any fiscal quarter or year. Increases in the values and concentrations of insured property may also increase the severity of these occurrences in the future. Although we attempt to manage our exposure to such events through the use of underwriting controls and the purchase of third-party reinsurance, catastrophic events are inherently unpredictable and the actual nature of such events when they occur could be more frequent or severe than contemplated in our pricing and risk management expectations. As a result, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Refer to “Catastrophe Exposure Management”, under Item 7 for more information.    If actual claims exceed our loss reserves, our financial results could be adversely affected.  Our results of operations and financial condition depend upon our ability to assess accurately the potential losses associated with the risks that we insure and reinsure. We establish reserves for unpaid losses and loss expenses, which are estimates of future payments of reported and unreported claims for losses and related expenses, with respect to insured events that have occurred at or prior to the date of the balance sheet. The process of establishing reserves can be highly complex and is subject to considerable variability as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments are based on numerous factors, and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methodologies are developed, as loss trends and claims inflation impact future payments, or as current laws or interpretations thereof change.  We have actuarial staff in each of our operating segments who analyze insurance reserves and regularly evaluate the levels of loss reserves. Any such evaluations could result in future changes in estimates of losses or reinsurance recoverable and would be reflected in our results of operations in the period in which the estimates are changed. Losses and loss expenses are charged to income as incurred. Reserves for unpaid losses and loss expenses represent the estimated ultimate losses and loss expenses less paid losses and loss expenses, and is comprised of case reserves and IBNR. During the loss settlement period, which can be many years in duration for some of our lines of business, additional facts regarding individual claims and trends often will become known. As these become apparent, case reserves may be adjusted by allocation from IBNR without any change in overall reserves. In addition, application of statistical and actuarial methods may require the adjustment of overall reserves upward or downward from time to time.  Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are liabilities for latent claims such as A&E. These claims are principally related to claims arising from remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites and bodily-injury claims related to exposure to asbestos products and environmental hazards. The estimation of these liabilities is subject to many complex variables including: the current legal environment; specific settlements that may be used as precedents to settle future claims; assumptions regarding multiple recoveries by claimants against various defendants; the ability of a claimant to bring a claim in a state in which they have no residency or exposure; the ability of a policyholder to claim the right to non-products coverage; whether high-level excess policies have the potential to be accessed given the policyholder’s claim trends and liability situation; payments to unimpaired claimants; and the potential liability of peripheral defendants.  Accordingly, the ultimate settlement of losses may be significantly greater or less than the loss and loss expense reserves held at the date of the balance sheet. If our loss reserves are determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase loss reserves at the time of such determination and our net income will be reduced. If the increase in loss reserves is large enough,     18    Table of Contents    we could incur an operating loss and a reduction of our capital. Refer to “Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run-Off Liabilities”, under Item 7 and Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8.    The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain.  As industry practices and legislative, regulatory, judicial, social, and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the frequency and severity of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued.    The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.  We seek to limit our loss exposure by writing a number of our insurance and reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis. Excess of loss insurance and reinsurance indemnifies the insured against losses in excess of a specified amount. In addition, we limit program size for each client and purchase third-party reinsurance for our own account. In the case of our assumed proportional reinsurance treaties, we seek per occurrence limitations or loss and loss expense ratio caps to limit the impact of losses ceded by the client. In proportional reinsurance, the reinsurer shares a proportional part of the premiums and losses of the reinsured. We also seek to limit our loss exposure by geographic diversification. Geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the area of the zones and the inclusion of a particular policy within a particular zone’s limits. Various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum negotiated to limit our risks, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend. As a result, one or more catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.    We may be unable to purchase reinsurance, and if we successfully purchase reinsurance, we are subject to the possibility of non-payment.  We purchase reinsurance to protect certain ACE companies against catastrophes, to increase the amount of protection we can provide our clients, and as part of our overall risk management strategy. Our reinsurance business also purchases some retrocessional protection. A retrocessional reinsurance agreement allows a reinsurer to cede to another company all or part of the reinsurance that was originally assumed by the reinsurer. A reinsurer’s or retrocessionaire’s insolvency, or inability or unwillingness to make timely payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with us, could have an adverse effect on us because we remain liable to the insured. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance that they consider adequate for their business needs.  There is no guarantee our desired amounts of reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance will be available in the marketplace in the future. In addition to capacity risk, the remaining capacity may not be on terms we deem appropriate or acceptable or with companies with whom we want to do business. Finally, we face some degree of counterparty risk whenever we purchase reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance. Consequently, the insolvency, inability or unwillingness of any of our present or future reinsurers to make timely payments to us under the terms of our reinsurance or retrocessional agreements could have an adverse effect on us. At December 31, 2007, we had $14.4 billion of reinsurance recoverables, net of reserves for uncollectible recoverables.  As part of the restructuring of INA Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries that occurred in 1996, Insurance Company of North America (INA) was divided into two separate corporations: an active insurance company that retained the INA name and continued to write P&C business and an inactive run-off company, now called Century Indemnity Company (Century). The A&E exposures of substantially all of INA’s U.S. P&C companies, now our subsidiaries, were either allocated to Century (as a result of the restructuring) or reinsured to subsidiaries of Brandywine, primarily Century. Certain of our subsidiaries are primarily liable for A&E and other exposures they have reinsured to Century. As of December 31, 2007, the aggregate reinsurance balances ceded by our active subsidiaries to Century were $1.5 billion. Should Century experience adverse loss reserve development in the future and should Century be placed into rehabilitation or liquidation, the reinsurance recoverables due to Century’s affiliates would be payable only after the payment in full of certain expenses and liabilities, including administrative expenses and direct policy liabilities. Thus, the intercompany reinsurance recoverables would be at risk to the extent of the shortage of assets remaining to pay these recoverables. While we believe the intercompany reinsurance recoverables from     19    Table of Contents    Century are not impaired at this time, we cannot assure you that adverse development with respect to Century’s loss reserves will not result in Century’s insolvency, which could result in our recognizing a loss to the extent of any uncollectible reinsurance from Century. For further information regarding our reinsurance exposure to Century, refer to “Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run-Off Liabilities”, under Item 7.    Our net income may be volatile because certain products offered by our Life business expose us to reserve and fair value liability changes that are directly affected by market factors.  Under reinsurance programs covering variable annuity guarantees, we assume the risk of guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB) and guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB) associated with variable annuity contracts. Our net income is directly impacted by changes in the reserves calculated in connection with the reinsurance of GMDB and GMIB liabilities. In addition, our net income is directly impacted by the change in the fair value of the GMIB liability. The reserve and fair value liability calculations are directly affected by market factors, the most significant of which are equity levels, interest rate levels, and implied equity volatilities. ACE views our variable annuity reinsurance business as having a similar risk profile to that of catastrophe reinsurance, with the probability of a cumulative long term economic net loss relatively small. However, in the short run, adverse changes in market factors will have an adverse impact on both life underwriting income and our net income, which may be material. Refer to the “Critical Accounting Estimates – Guaranteed minimum income benefits derivatives”, under Item 7 and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk – Reinsurance of GMIB and GMDB guarantees”, under Item 7A for more information.    A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure or those of third parties could disrupt business, damage our reputation, and cause losses.  ACE’s operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in its computer systems and networks. ACE’s business depends on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data it uses to run its business. Our ability to adequately price products and services, to establish reserves, to provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to timely and accurately report our financial results also depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that could have security consequences. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize ACE’s or our clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in ACE’s, its clients’, its counterparties’, or third parties’ operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. ACE may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered by insurance maintained.  Despite the contingency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption of the infrastructure that supports our business in the communities in which we are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation, or other services used by ACE. These disruptions may occur, for example, as a result of events that affect only the buildings occupied by ACE or as a result of events with a broader effect on the cities where those buildings are located. If a disruption occurs in one location and ACE employees in that location are unable to occupy its offices and conduct business or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with clients may suffer and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel.    Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.  Losses may result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions ACE takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Resultant losses could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.    20    Table of Contents   Financial Strength Ratings    A decline in our ratings could affect our standing among brokers and customers and cause our premiums and earnings to decrease.  Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. The objective of these rating systems is to provide an opinion of an insurer’s financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to its policyholders. Our financial strength ratings reflect the rating agencies’ opinions of our claims paying ability, are not evaluations directed to investors in our securities, and are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold our securities. If our financial strength ratings are reduced from their current levels by one or more of these rating agencies, our competitive position in the insurance industry could suffer and it would be more difficult for us to market our products. A downgrade, therefore, could result in a substantial loss of business as insureds, ceding companies, and brokers move to other insurers and reinsurers with higher ratings. We cannot give any assurance regarding whether or to what extent any of the rating agencies may downgrade our ratings in the future.    Loss of Key Executives    We could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more key executives or by an inability to attract and retain qualified personnel.  Our success depends on our ability to retain the services of our existing key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of any of our key executives or the inability to hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies with respect to our employees.  Many of our senior executives working in Bermuda, including our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Accounting Officer, our Chief Actuary, and our General Counsel, are not Bermudian. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians and holders of permanent resident’s certificates) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Our success may depend in part on the continued services of key employees in Bermuda. A work permit may be granted or renewed upon showing that, after proper public advertisement, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian or holder of a permanent resident’s certificate) is available who meets the minimum standards reasonably required by the employer. The Bermuda government’s policy places a six-year term limit on individuals with work permits, subject to certain exemptions for key employees. A work permit may be issued with an expiry date that is one to five years later, and no assurances can be given that any work permit will be issued or, if issued, renewed upon the expiration of the relevant term. It is possible that Bermuda could change its laws or policies in a way that would make it more difficult for non-Bermudians to obtain work permits.    Reliance on Brokers    Since we depend on a few brokers for a large portion of our revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us.   We market our insurance and reinsurance worldwide primarily through insurance and reinsurance brokers. Marsh, Inc. and its affiliates and Aon Corporation and its affiliates provided approximately 17 percent and 11 percent, respectively, of our gross premiums written in the year ended December 31, 2007. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business.    Our reliance on brokers subjects us to their credit risk.  In accordance with industry practice, we generally pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance and reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts over to the clients that have purchased insurance or reinsurance from us. Although the law is unsettled and depends upon the facts and circumstances of the particular case, in some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such a payment, we might remain liable to the insured or ceding insurer for the deficiency. Conversely, in certain jurisdictions, when the insured or ceding insurer pays premiums for these policies to brokers for payment over to us, these premiums might be considered to have been paid and the insured or ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums from the broker. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers with whom we transact business. However, due to the unsettled and fact-specific nature of the law, we are unable to quantify our exposure to this risk. To date, we have not experienced any material losses related to these credit risks.    21    Table of Contents   Liquidity and Investments    Our investment performance may affect our financial results and ability to conduct business.   Our funds are invested by professional investment management firms under the direction of our management team in accordance with investment guidelines approved by the Finance and Investment Committee of the Board of Directors. Although our investment guidelines stress diversification of risks and conservation of principal and liquidity, our investments are subject to market risks, as well as risks inherent in individual securities. The volatility of our loss claims may force us to liquidate securities, which may cause us to incur capital losses. Investment losses could significantly decrease our book value, thereby affecting our ability to conduct business.    We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes.  Our operating results are affected by the performance of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio contains fixed income investments and may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Volatility in interest rates could also have an adverse effect on our investment income and operating results. For example, if interest rates decline, funds reinvested will earn less than the maturing investment.  Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including monetary and fiscal policies, and domestic and international political conditions. Although we take measures to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to effectively mitigate interest rate sensitivity. Our mitigation efforts include maintaining a high quality portfolio with a relatively short duration to reduce the effect of interest rate changes on book value. A significant increase in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our book value. Refer to “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk – Interest rate risk”, under Item 7A.    We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms.  Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. We may need to raise additional funds through financings. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result, and in any case such securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges that are senior to those of our Ordinary Shares. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected.    Our investment portfolio has exposure to below investment-grade securities that have a higher degree of credit or default risk which could adversely effect our results of operations and financial condition.  Our fixed income portfolio is primarily invested in high quality, investment-grade securities. However, we invest a smaller portion of the portfolio in below investment-grade securities. These securities, which pay a higher rate of interest, also have a higher degree of credit or default risk. These securities may also be less liquid in times of economic weakness or market disruptions. While we have put in place procedures to monitor the credit risk and liquidity of our invested assets, it is possible that, in periods of economic weakness, we may experience default losses in our portfolio. This may result in a reduction of net income and capital.    We could be adversely affected by a downgrade of the financial strength or financial enhancement ratings of any of AGO’s insurance subsidiaries, and our net income may be volatile because AGO assumes credit derivatives which are marked-to-market quarterly.  AGO is a Bermuda based holding company that provides, through its operating subsidiaries, credit enhancement products to the public finance, structured finance, and mortgage markets. Our relationship with AGO is limited to our equity investment, which had a carrying value of $392 million at December 31, 2007. We conduct no financial guaranty business directly or with AGO and we retain no financial guaranty exposures with AGO.  The ratings assigned by the major rating agencies to AGO’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to periodic review and may be downgraded by one or more of the rating agencies at any time. If the ratings of any of AGO’s insurance subsidiaries were reduced below current levels by any of the rating agencies, it could have an adverse effect on the affected subsidiary’s competitive position and its prospects for future business opportunities. In certain circumstances, a ratings downgrade may also entitle a ceding company to recapture business ceded to an AGO subsidiary or, alternatively, to retroactively increase cession commissions to an AGO subsidiary, either of which could result in a potentially significant negative impact to AGO earnings, and, therefore, our proportionate share thereof.    22    Table of Contents   AGO’s net income and, therefore, our proportionate share thereof, may be volatile because a portion of the credit risk AGO assumes is in the form of credit derivatives that are marked-to-market quarterly. Any event causing credit spreads on an underlying security referenced in a credit derivative in AGO’s portfolio either to widen or to tighten will affect the fair value of the credit derivative and may increase the volatility of AGO’s earnings and, therefore, our proportionate share (24 percent) thereof. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our other (income) expense included our equity in the net loss of AGO of $68 million, primarily due to mark-to-market losses in AGO’s credit derivatives portfolio, our portion of which was $122 million. These losses were recorded as realized losses by AGO.    Exchange Rates    Our operating results may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations.  Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar. Many of our non-U.S. companies maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies. Therefore, foreign exchange risk is generally limited to net assets denominated in those foreign currencies. Foreign exchange risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. Locally required capital levels are invested in home currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations. The principal currencies creating foreign exchange risk are the British pound sterling, the euro, and the Canadian dollar. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 10 percent of our net assets were denominated in foreign currencies. We may experience losses resulting from fluctuations in the values of non-U.S. currencies, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Refer to “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk – Foreign currency exchange rate risk”, under Item 7A.    Regulatory and Other Governmental Developments    The regulatory regimes under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have an adverse effect on our business.  Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries conduct business globally, including in all 50 states of the United States and the District of Columbia. Our businesses in each of these jurisdictions are subject to varying degrees of regulation and supervision. The laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are domiciled require, among other things, that these subsidiaries maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus, and liquidity, meet solvency standards, and submit to periodic examinations of their financial condition. In some jurisdictions, laws and regulations also restrict payments of dividends and reductions of capital. Applicable statutes, regulations, and policies may also restrict the ability of these subsidiaries to write insurance and reinsurance policies, to make certain investments, and to distribute funds. The purpose of insurance laws and regulations generally is to protect insureds and ceding insurance companies, not our shareholders. We may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, applicable statutes and regulations. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under any applicable laws and regulations could result in restrictions on our ability to do business or undertake activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business and could subject us to fines and other sanctions. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, our ability to consummate our anticipated acquisition of Combined, as well as the timing of such consummation, is subject to numerous regulatory approvals as well as other customary closing conditions.    Current legal and regulatory activities relating to insurance brokers and agents, contingent commissions and certain finite-risk insurance products could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. As described in greater detail in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, ACE has received numerous regulatory inquiries, subpoenas, interrogatories, and civil investigative demands from regulatory authorities in connection with pending investigations of insurance industry practices. ACE is cooperating and will continue to cooperate with such inquiries. We cannot assure you that we will not receive any additional requests for information or subpoenas or what actions, if any, any of these governmental agencies will take as a result of these investigations. Additionally, at this time, we are unable to predict the potential effects, if any, that these actions may have upon the insurance and reinsurance markets and industry business practices or what, if any, changes may be made to laws and regulations regarding the industry and financial reporting. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.    Events may result in political, regulatory, and industry initiatives which could adversely affect our business.  Government intervention has occurred in the insurance and reinsurance markets in relation to terrorism coverage both in the U.S. and through industry initiatives in other countries. TRIA, which was enacted in 2002 to ensure the availability of     23    Table of Contents    insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts in the U.S., was extended in 2007 for seven years, through 2014. Refer to “Regulation – U.S. Operations” for more information.  Government intervention and the possibility of future interventions has created uncertainty in the insurance and reinsurance markets about the definition of terrorist acts and the extent to which future coverages will extend to terrorist acts. Government regulators are generally concerned with the protection of policyholders to the exclusion of other constituencies, including shareholders of insurers and reinsurers. While we cannot predict the exact nature, timing, or scope of possible governmental initiatives, such proposals could adversely affect our business by:  • providing insurance and reinsurance capacity in markets and to consumers that we target;  • requiring our participation in industry pools and guaranty associations;  • expanding the scope of coverage under existing policies;  • regulating the terms of insurance and reinsurance policies; or  • disproportionately benefiting the companies of one country over those of another.  The insurance industry is also affected by political, judicial, and legal developments that may create new and expanded theories of liability. Such changes may result in delays or cancellations of products and services by insurers and reinsurers, which could adversely affect our business.    Our operations in developing nations expose us to political developments that could have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition.  Our international operations include operations in various developing nations. Both current and future foreign operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable political developments including law changes, tax changes, regulatory restrictions, and nationalization of ACE operations without compensation. Adverse actions from any one country could have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition depending on the magnitude of the event and ACE’s net financial exposure at that time in that country.    Company Structure    Our ability to pay dividends and to make payments on indebtedness may be constrained by our holding company structure.  ACE Limited is a holding company and does not have any significant operations or assets other than its ownership of the shares of its operating insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. Dividends and other permitted distributions from our insurance subsidiaries are our primary source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including any future debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends to our shareholders. Some of our insurance subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting their ability to declare and pay dividends. The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could have an adverse effect on our operations and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders and/or meet our debt service obligations.    ACE Limited is a Cayman Islands company with headquarters in Bermuda; it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against it or its directors and executive officers.  ACE Limited is incorporated pursuant to the laws of the Cayman Islands, and our principal executive offices are located in Bermuda. In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to affect service of process within the United States upon those persons or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws.  ACE has been advised by Maples and Calder, its Cayman Islands counsel, that there is doubt as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands would enforce:  • judgments of U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. Federal securities laws obtained in actions against ACE or its directors and officers, who reside outside the United States; or  • original actions brought in the Cayman Islands against these persons or ACE predicated solely upon U.S. Federal securities laws.  ACE has also been advised by Maples and Calder that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and the Cayman Islands providing for this enforcement, and there are grounds upon which Cayman Islands courts may not enforce judgments of United States courts. Some remedies available under the laws of United States jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. Federal securities laws, would not be allowed in Cayman Islands courts as these could be contrary to that nation’s public policy.    24    Table of Contents   Insurance and Reinsurance Markets    Competition in the insurance and reinsurance markets could reduce our margins.  Insurance and reinsurance markets are highly competitive. We compete on an international and regional basis with major U.S., Bermuda, European, and other international insurers and reinsurers and with underwriting syndicates, some of which have greater financial, marketing, and management resources than we do. We also compete with new companies that continue to be formed to enter the insurance and reinsurance markets. In addition, capital market participants have recently created alternative products that are intended to compete with reinsurance products. Increased competition could result in fewer submissions, lower premium rates, and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could reduce our margins.    Insurance and reinsurance markets are historically cyclical, and we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates.  The insurance and reinsurance markets have historically been cyclical, characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. An increase in premium levels is often offset by an increasing supply of insurance and reinsurance capacity, either by capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms, and fewer submissions for our underwriting services. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance and reinsurance markets significantly.    Charter Documents and Applicable Law    There are provisions in our charter documents that may reduce the voting rights and restrict the transfer of our Ordinary Shares.  Our Articles of Association generally provide that shareholders have one vote for each ordinary share held by them and are entitled to vote at all meetings of shareholders. However, the voting rights exercisable by a shareholder may be limited so that certain persons or groups are not deemed to hold 10 percent or more of the voting power conferred by our Ordinary Shares. Under these provisions, some shareholders may have the ability to exercise their voting rights limited to less than one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the voting power of some shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. In addition, our Board of Directors may decline to register a transfer of any Ordinary Shares under some circumstances, including if a transfer would increase the ownership of our Ordinary Shares by certain persons or groups to 10 percent or more.    Applicable laws may make it difficult to effect a change of control of our company.  Before a person can acquire control of a U.S. insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance commissioner of the state where the domestic insurer is domiciled. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer, the state insurance commissioner will consider such factors as the financial strength of the applicant, the integrity and management of the applicant’s Board of Directors and executive officers, the acquirer’s plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer, and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control. Generally, state statutes provide that control over a domestic insurer is presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing 10 percent or more of the voting securities of the domestic insurer. Because a person acquiring 10 percent or more of our Ordinary Shares would indirectly control the same percentage of the stock of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, the insurance change of control laws of various U.S. jurisdictions would likely apply to such a transaction.  We and certain of our U.K. subsidiaries are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Council of Lloyd’s. Lloyd’s imposes an absolute prohibition on any person being a 10 percent controller of a corporate member without first notifying Lloyd’s and receiving their consent. Because a person acquiring 10 percent or more of our Ordinary Shares would indirectly control the same percentage of the stock of our subsidiary, that is a Lloyd’s corporate member, the Lloyd’s restrictions on becoming a controller of a corporate member would likely apply to such a transaction.  Laws of other jurisdictions in which one or more of our existing subsidiaries are, or a future subsidiary may be, organized or domiciled may contain similar restrictions on the acquisition of control of ACE.  While our Articles of Association limit the voting power of any shareholder to less than 10 percent, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory body would agree that a shareholder who owned 10 percent or more of our Ordinary Shares did not, because of the limitation on the voting power of such shares, control the applicable insurance subsidiary.    25    Table of Contents   These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change of control of the Company, including transactions that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable.    U.S. persons who own our Ordinary Shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation.  The Companies Law (2004 Revision) of the Cayman Islands, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. These differences include the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they have an interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits, and the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers.    Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and corporate documents could impede an attempt to replace our directors or to effect a change of control, which could diminish the value of our Ordinary Shares.  Our Articles of Association contain provisions that may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors and could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. These provisions include a staggered Board of Directors, limitations on the ability of shareholders to remove directors other than for cause, limitations on voting rights, and restrictions on transfer of our Ordinary Shares. In addition, we have in place a shareholder rights plan which would cause extreme dilution to any person or group that attempts to acquire a significant interest in the Company without advance approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our Ordinary Shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Ordinary Shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.    Taxation    We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28, 2016, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment.  The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, as amended, has given each of ACE Limited and its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries a written assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax would not be applicable to those companies or any of their respective operations, shares, debentures, or other obligations until March 28, 2016, except insofar as such tax would apply to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or is payable by us in respect of real property owned or leased by us in Bermuda. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016.    We may become subject to taxes in the Cayman Islands after January 31, 2026, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment.  Under current Cayman Islands law, we are not obligated to pay any taxes in the Cayman Islands on our income or gains. We have received an undertaking from the Governor in Cabinet of the Cayman Islands pursuant to the provisions of the Tax Concessions Law, as amended, that until January 31, 2026, (i) no subsequently enacted law imposing any tax on profits, income, gains, or appreciation shall apply to us and (ii) no such tax and no tax in the nature of an estate duty or an inheritance tax shall be payable on any of our Ordinary Shares, debentures, or other obligations. Under current law, no tax will be payable on the transfer or other disposition of our Ordinary Shares. The Cayman Islands currently impose stamp duties on certain categories of documents; however, our current operations do not involve the payment of stamp duties in any material amount. The Cayman Islands also currently impose an annual corporate fee upon all exempted companies incorporated in the Cayman Islands. Given the limited duration of the undertaking from the Governor in Cabinet of the Cayman Islands, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Cayman Islands tax after January 31, 2026.    ACE Limited and our Bermuda-based subsidiaries may become subject to U.S. tax, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment.  ACE Limited, ACE Bermuda Insurance Ltd., ACE Tempest Life Reinsurance Ltd., and our other Bermuda-based insurance subsidiaries operate in a manner so that none of these companies should be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. withholding tax on some types of U.S. source investment income), because none of these companies should be treated as engaged in a trade or busi-    26    Table of Contents    ness within the United States. However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, we cannot be certain that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) will not contend successfully that any of ACE Limited or its Bermuda-based subsidiaries is/are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If ACE Limited or any of its Bermuda-based subsidiaries were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States, such entity could be subject to U.S. corporate income and additional branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business, in which case its results of operations and your investment could be adversely affected.    If you acquire 10 percent or more of ACE Limited’s shares, you may be subject to taxation under the “controlled foreign corporation” (the CFC) rules.  Under certain circumstances, a U.S. person who owns 10 percent or more of the voting power of a foreign corporation that is a CFC (a foreign corporation in which 10 percent U.S. shareholders own more than 50 percent of the voting power or value of the stock of a foreign corporation or more than 25 percent of a foreign insurance corporation) for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year must include in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such “10 percent U.S. Shareholder’s” pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income”, even if the subpart F income is not distributed to such 10 percent U.S. Shareholder if such 10 percent U.S. Shareholder owns (directly or indirectly through foreign entities) any of our shares on the last day of our fiscal year. Subpart F income of a foreign insurance corporation typically includes foreign personal holding company income (such as interest, dividends, and other types of passive income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income) attributable to the insurance of risks situated outside the CFC’s country of incorporation.  We believe that because of the dispersion of our share ownership, provisions in our organizational documents that limit voting power, and other factors, no U.S. person or U.S. Partnership who acquires shares of ACE Limited directly or indirectly through one or more foreign entities should be required to include our subpart F income in income under the CFC rules of the IRS Code. It is possible, however, that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge, in which case your investment could be adversely affected if you own 10 percent or more of ACE Limited’s stock.    U.S. persons who hold shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at ordinary income rates on their proportionate share of our Related Person Insurance Income (RPII).  If the RPII of any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries (each a “Non-U.S. Insurance Subsidiary”) were to equal or exceed 20 percent of that company’s gross insurance income in any taxable year and direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to those insureds) own directly or indirectly through foreign entities 20 percent or more of the voting power or value of ACE Limited, then a U.S. person who owns any shares of ACE Limited (directly or indirectly through foreign entities) on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such person’s pro rata share of such company’s RPII for the entire taxable year, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. persons at that date regardless of whether such income is distributed. In addition, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization may be treated as unrelated business taxable income. We believe that the gross RPII of each Non-U.S. Insurance Subsidiary did not in prior years of operation and is not expected in the foreseeable future to equal or exceed 20 percent of each such company’s gross insurance income, and we do not expect the direct or indirect insureds of each Non-U.S. Insurance Subsidiary (and persons related to such insureds) to directly or indirectly own 20 percent or more of either the voting power or value of our shares, but we cannot be certain that this will be the case because some of the factors which determine the extent of RPII may be beyond our control. If these thresholds are met or exceeded, and if you are an affected U.S. person, your investment could be adversely affected.    U.S. persons who hold shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if we are considered to be a Passive Foreign Investment Company (PFIC) for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  If ACE Limited is considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. person who owns any shares of ACE Limited will be subject to adverse tax consequences, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed, in which case your investment could be adversely affected. In addition, if ACE Limited were considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning shares, such individual’s heirs or estate would not be entitled to a “step-up” in the basis of the shares which might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax laws. We believe that we are not, have not been, and currently do not expect to become, a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We cannot assure you, however, that we will not be     27    Table of Contents    deemed a PFIC by the IRS. If we were considered a PFIC, it could have adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation.    U.S. tax-exempt organizations who own our shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income.  A U.S. tax-exempt organization may recognize unrelated business taxable income if a portion of our insurance income is allocated to the organization, which generally would be the case if either we are a CFC and the tax-exempt shareholder is a 10 percent U.S. shareholder or there is RPII, certain exceptions do not apply, and the tax-exempt organization, directly or indirectly through foreign entities, owns any shares of ACE Limited. Although we do not believe that any U.S. persons or U.S. Partnerships should be allocated such insurance income, we cannot be certain that this will be the case. Potential U.S. tax-exempt investors are advised to consult their tax advisors.    The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Union are considering measures that might encourage countries to increase our taxes.  A number of multilateral organizations, including the European Union, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), the Financial Action Task Force, and the Financial Stability Forum (FSF) have, in recent years, identified some countries as not participating in adequate information exchange, engaging in harmful tax practices, or not maintaining adequate controls to prevent corruption, such as money laundering activities. Recommendations to limit such harmful practices are under consideration by these organizations, and a report published on November 27, 2001 by the OECD at the behest of the FSF titled “Behind the Corporate Veil: Using Corporate Entities for Illicit Purposes”, contains an extensive discussion of specific recommendations. The OECD has threatened non-member jurisdictions that do not agree to cooperate with the OECD with punitive sanctions by OECD member countries, though specific sanctions have yet to be adopted by OECD member countries. It is as yet unclear what these sanctions will be, who will adopt them, and when or if they will be imposed. In an April 18, 2002 report, updated as of June 2004, Bermuda was not listed as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction by the OECD because it previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information, and the elimination of regimes for financial and other services that attract businesses with no substantial domestic activity. We cannot assure you, however, that the action taken by Bermuda would be sufficient to preclude all effects of the measures or sanctions described above, which, if ultimately adopted, could adversely affect Bermuda companies such as us.    Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could adversely affect an investment in our shares.  Legislation is periodically introduced in the U.S. Congress intended to eliminate some perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United States but have certain U.S. connections. It is possible that legislative proposals could emerge in the future that could have an adverse impact on us or our shareholders. See following risk factor for currently proposed legislation.    Currently, there is proposed legislation in the U.S. that could exclude our shareholders from advantageous capital gains rates.  Under current law, individual U.S. holders of ACE Limited shares are taxed on dividends at advantageous capital gains rates rather than ordinary income tax rates. Currently, there is proposed legislation before both Houses of Congress that would exclude shareholders of foreign corporations from this advantageous capital gains rate treatment unless either (i) the corporation is organized or created in a country that has entered into a “comprehensive income tax treaty” with the U.S. or (ii) the stock of such corporation is readily tradable on an established securities market in the U.S. and the corporation is organized or created in a country that has a “comprehensive income tax system” that the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury determines is satisfactory for this purpose. ACE Limited would not satisfy either of these tests and, accordingly, if this legislation became law, individual U.S. shareholders would no longer qualify for the advantageous capital gains rates on ACE Limited dividends.     ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments