ITEM 1A. Risk Factors    Factors that could have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition are outlined below. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem insignificant may also impair our business or results of operations as they become known facts or as facts and circumstances change. Any of the risks described below could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.    Business    The current recession and other adverse consequences of the recent U.S. and global economic and financial industry downturns could harm our business, our liquidity and financial condition, and our stock price.  Global market and economic conditions have been severely disrupted. These conditions may potentially affect (among other aspects of our business) the demand for and claims made under our products, the ability of customers, counterparties and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us, our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources, the availability of reinsurance protection, the risks we assume under reinsurance programs covering variable annuity guarantees, and our investment performance. Continued volatility in the U.S. and other securities markets may adversely affect our stock price.    Our financial condition could be adversely affected by the occurrence of natural and man-made disasters.  We have substantial exposure to losses resulting from natural disasters, man-made catastrophes, and other catastrophic events. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, typhoons, earthquakes, hailstorms, explosions, severe winter weather, fires, war, acts of terrorism, political instability, and other natural or man-made disasters. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and our losses from catastrophes could be substantial. In addition, climate conditions, may be worsening, primarily through increases in global temperatures, which may in the future increase the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes and the losses resulting there from. The occurrence of claims from catastrophic events could result in substantial volatility in our results of operations or financial condition for any fiscal quarter or year. Increases in the values and concentrations of insured property may also increase the severity of these occurrences in the future. Although we attempt to manage our exposure to such events through the use of underwriting controls and the purchase of third-party reinsurance, catastrophic events are inherently unpredictable and the actual nature of such events when they occur could be more frequent or severe than contemplated in our pricing and risk management expectations. As a result, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.    If actual claims exceed our loss reserves, our financial results could be adversely affected.   Our results of operations and financial condition depend upon our ability to assess accurately the potential losses associated with the risks that we insure and reinsure. We establish reserves for unpaid losses and loss expenses, which are estimates of future payments of reported and unreported claims for losses and related expenses, with respect to insured events that have occurred at or prior to the date of the balance sheet. The process of establishing reserves can be highly complex and is subject to considerable variability as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments are based on numerous factors, and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methodologies are developed, as loss trends and claims inflation impact future payments, or as current laws or interpretations thereof change.  We have actuarial staff in each of our operating segments who analyze insurance reserves and regularly evaluate the levels of loss reserves. Any such evaluations could result in future changes in estimates of losses or reinsurance recoverable and would be reflected in our results of operations in the period in which the estimates are changed. Losses and loss expenses are charged to income as incurred. Reserves for unpaid losses and loss expenses represent the estimated ultimate losses and loss expenses less paid losses and loss expenses, and is comprised of case reserves and IBNR. During the loss settlement period, which can be many years in duration for some of our lines of business, additional facts regarding individual claims and trends often will become known. As these become apparent, case reserves may be adjusted by allocation from IBNR without any change in overall reserves. In addition, application of statistical and actuarial methods may require the adjustment of overall reserves upward or downward from time to time.  Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are liabilities for latent claims such as asbestos and environmental. At December 31, 2008, these A&E liabilities represented approximately eight percent of our liabilities for losses and loss     19    Table of Contents    expenses. These claims are principally related to claims arising from remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites and bodily-injury claims related to exposure to asbestos products and environmental hazards. The estimation of these liabilities is subject to many complex variables including: the current legal environment; specific settlements that may be used as precedents to settle future claims; assumptions regarding multiple recoveries by claimants against various defendants; the ability of a claimant to bring a claim in a state in which they have no residency or exposure; the ability of a policyholder to claim the right to non-products coverage; whether high-level excess policies have the potential to be accessed given the policyholder’s claim trends and liability situation; payments to unimpaired claimants; and the potential liability of peripheral defendants.  Accordingly, the ultimate settlement of losses, arising from either latent or non-latent causes, may be significantly greater or less than the loss and loss expense reserves held at the date of the balance sheet. If our loss reserves are determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase loss reserves at the time of such determination and our net income will be reduced. If the increase in loss reserves is large enough, we could incur a net loss and a reduction of our capital.    The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain.  As industry practices and legislative, regulatory, judicial, social, financial and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the frequency and severity of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued.    The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.  We seek to limit our loss exposure by writing a number of our insurance and reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis. Excess of loss insurance and reinsurance indemnifies the insured against losses in excess of a specified amount. In addition, we limit program size for each client and purchase third-party reinsurance for our own account. In the case of our assumed proportional reinsurance treaties, we seek per occurrence limitations or loss and loss expense ratio caps to limit the impact of losses ceded by the client. In proportional reinsurance, the reinsurer shares a proportional part of the premiums and losses of the reinsured. We also seek to limit our loss exposure by geographic diversification. Geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the area of the zones and the inclusion of a particular policy within a particular zone’s limits. Various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum negotiated to limit our risks, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend. As a result, one or more catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.    We may be unable to purchase reinsurance, and if we successfully purchase reinsurance, we are subject to the possibility of non-payment.  We purchase reinsurance to protect certain ACE companies against catastrophes, to increase the amount of protection we can provide our clients, and as part of our overall risk management strategy. Our reinsurance business also purchases some retrocessional protection. A retrocessional reinsurance agreement allows a reinsurer to cede to another company all or part of the reinsurance that was originally assumed by the reinsurer. A reinsurer’s or retrocessionaire’s insolvency, or inability or unwillingness to make timely payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with us, could have an adverse effect on us because we remain liable to the insured. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance that they consider adequate for their business needs.  There is no guarantee our desired amounts of reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance will be available in the marketplace in the future. In addition to capacity risk, the remaining capacity may not be on terms we deem appropriate or acceptable or with companies with whom we want to do business. Finally, we face some degree of counterparty risk whenever we purchase reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance. Consequently, the insolvency, inability or unwillingness of any of our present or future reinsurers to make timely payments to us under the terms of our reinsurance or retrocessional agreements could have an adverse effect on us. At December 31, 2008, we had $13.9 billion of reinsurance recoverables, net of reserves for uncollectible recoverables.  As part of the restructuring of INA Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries that occurred in 1996, Insurance Company of North America (INA) was divided into two separate corporations: an active insurance company that retained the INA name and continued to write P&C business and an inactive run-off company, now called Century Indemnity Company (Century). The     20    Table of Contents    A&E exposures of substantially all of INA’s U.S. P&C companies, now our subsidiaries, were either allocated to Century (as a result of the restructuring) or reinsured to subsidiaries of Brandywine, primarily Century. Certain of our subsidiaries are primarily liable for A&E and other exposures they have reinsured to Century. As of December 31, 2008, the aggregate reinsurance balances ceded by our active subsidiaries to Century were $1.3 billion. Should Century experience adverse loss reserve development in the future and should Century be placed into rehabilitation or liquidation, the reinsurance recoverables due to Century’s affiliates would be payable only after the payment in full of certain expenses and liabilities, including administrative expenses and direct policy liabilities. Thus, the intercompany reinsurance recoverables would be at risk to the extent of the shortage of assets remaining to pay these recoverables. While we believe the intercompany reinsurance recoverables from Century are not impaired at this time, we cannot assure you that adverse development with respect to Century’s loss reserves, if manifested, will not result in Century’s insolvency, which could result in our recognizing a loss to the extent of any uncollectible reinsurance from Century.    Our net income may be volatile because certain products offered by our Life business expose us to reserve and fair value liability changes that are directly affected by market and other factors and assumptions.  Our pricing and valuation of life insurance and annuity products, including reinsurance programs, are based upon various assumptions, including but not limited to market changes, mortality rates, morbidity rates, and policyholder behavior. Significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products and our business.  Under reinsurance programs covering variable annuity guarantees, we assume the risk of guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB) and guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB) associated with variable annuity contracts. Our net income is directly impacted by changes in the reserves calculated in connection with the reinsurance of GMDB and GMIB liabilities. In addition, our net income is directly impacted by the change in the fair value of the GMIB liability. The reserve and fair value liability calculations are directly affected by market factors, including equity levels, interest rate levels, credit risk, and implied volatilities. The reserve and fair value liability calculations are also affected by assumptions about policyholder mortality and changes in policyholder behavior, most significantly withdrawal and annuitization. Significant changes in behavior as a result of policyholder reactions to market or economic conditions could be material. ACE views our variable annuity reinsurance business as having a similar risk profile to that of catastrophe reinsurance, with the probability of long-term economic loss relatively small at the time of pricing. Adverse changes in market factors and policyholder behavior will have an impact on both life underwriting income and net income. When evaluating these risks, we expect to be compensated for taking both the risk of a cumulative long-term economic net loss, as well as the short-term accounting variations caused by these market movements. Therefore, we evaluate this business in terms of its long-term economic risk and reward. Refer to the “Critical Accounting Estimates – Guaranteed minimum income benefits derivatives”, under Item 7 and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk – Reinsurance of GMIB and GMDB guarantees”, under Item 7A for more information.    A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure or those of third parties could disrupt business, damage our reputation, and cause losses.  ACE’s operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in its computer systems and networks. ACE’s business depends on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data it uses to run its business. Our ability to adequately price products and services, to establish reserves, to provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to timely and accurately report our financial results also depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that could have security consequences. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize ACE’s or our clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in ACE’s, its clients’, its counterparties’, or third parties’ operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. ACE may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered by insurance maintained.  Despite the contingency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption of the infrastructure that supports our business in the communities in which we are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation, or other services used by ACE. These disruptions may occur, for example, as a result of events that affect only the buildings occupied by ACE or as a result of events with a broader effect     21    Table of Contents    on the cities where those buildings are located. If a disruption occurs in one location and ACE employees in that location are unable to occupy its offices and conduct business or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with clients may suffer and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel.    Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.  Losses may result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions ACE takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Resultant losses could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.    The integration of acquired companies may not be as successful as we anticipate.  Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including operational, strategic and financial risks such as potential liabilities associated with the acquired business. Difficulties in integrating an acquired company may result in the acquired company performing differently than we currently expect or in our failure to realize anticipated expense-related efficiencies. Our existing businesses could also be negatively impacted by acquisitions. For example, our 2008 acquisition of Combined Insurance resulted in our obtaining a large new sales force, creating new distribution channels for the Company. These changes to our distribution system may require management to divert its attention from other operational matters and could create new liabilities for us.    Financial Strength Ratings    A decline in our ratings could affect our standing among brokers and customers and cause our premiums and earnings to decrease.  Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. The objective of these rating systems is to provide an opinion of an insurer’s financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to its policyholders. Our financial strength ratings reflect the rating agencies’ opinions of our claims paying ability, are not evaluations directed to investors in our securities, and are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold our securities. If our financial strength ratings are reduced from their current levels by one or more of these rating agencies, our competitive position in the insurance industry could suffer and it would be more difficult for us to market our products. A downgrade, therefore, could result in a substantial loss of business as insureds, ceding companies, and brokers move to other insurers and reinsurers with higher ratings. If one or more of our ratings were downgraded, we could also incur higher borrowing costs, and our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted. Additionally, we could be required to post collateral or be faced with the cancellation of premium in certain circumstances. Refer to “Ratings”, under Item 7.  We cannot give any assurance regarding whether or to what extent any of the rating agencies may downgrade our ratings in the future.    Loss of Key Executives    We could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more key executives or by an inability to attract and retain qualified personnel.  Our success depends on our ability to retain the services of our existing key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of any of our key executives or the inability to hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies with respect to our employees.  Many of our senior executives working in Bermuda, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Accounting Officer, our Chief Actuary & Risk Officer, and our General Counsel, are not Bermudian. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians and holders of permanent resident’s certificates) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Our success may depend in part on the continued services of key employees in Bermuda. A work permit may be granted or renewed upon showing that, after proper public advertisement, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian or holder of a permanent resident’s certificate) is available who meets the minimum standards reasonably required by the employer. The Bermuda government’s policy places a six-year term limit on individuals with work permits, subject to certain exemptions for key employees. A work permit may be     22    Table of Contents    issued with an expiry date that is one to five years later, and no assurances can be given that any work permit will be issued or, if issued, renewed upon the expiration of the relevant term.    Brokers and Customers    Since we depend on a few brokers for a large portion of our revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us.  We market our insurance and reinsurance worldwide primarily through insurance and reinsurance brokers. Marsh, Inc. and its affiliates and Aon Corporation and its affiliates provided approximately 13 percent and 9 percent, respectively, of our gross premiums written in the year ended December 31, 2008. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business.    Our reliance on brokers subjects us to credit risk.  In accordance with industry practice, we generally pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance and reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts over to the clients that have purchased insurance or reinsurance from us. Although the law is unsettled and depends upon the facts and circumstances of the particular case, in some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such a payment, we might remain liable to the insured or ceding insurer for the deficiency. Conversely, in certain jurisdictions, when the insured or ceding insurer pays premiums for these policies to brokers for payment over to us, these premiums might be considered to have been paid and the insured or ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums from the broker. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers with whom we transact business. However, due to the unsettled and fact-specific nature of the law, we are unable to quantify our exposure to this risk. To date, we have not experienced any material losses related to these credit risks.    Certain of our policies subject us to credit risk from customers.  We offer high-deductible policies which are primarily provided in the workers’ compensation and certain general liability protection lines of our business. Under the terms of these policies, our customers are responsible for a set dollar amount per claim and/or an aggregate amount for all covered claims before we are ultimately liable. However, we may be required under such policies to pay third party claimants directly and then seek reimbursement for losses within the deductible from our customers. This subjects us to credit risk from these customers. While we generally seek to mitigate this risk through collateral agreements and maintain a provision for uncollectible accounts associated with this credit exposure, an increased inability of customers to reimburse us in this context could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results. In addition, a lack of credit available to our customers could impact our ability to collateralize this risk to our satisfaction, which in turn, could reduce the amount of high-deductible policies we could offer.    Liquidity and Investments    Our investment performance may affect our financial results and ability to conduct business.   Our funds are invested by professional investment management firms under the direction of our management team in accordance with investment guidelines approved by the Finance and Investment Committee of the Board of Directors. Although our investment guidelines stress diversification of risks and conservation of principal and liquidity, our investments are subject to market risks, as well as risks inherent in individual securities. The volatility of our loss claims may force us to liquidate securities, which may cause us to incur capital losses. Realized and unrealized losses in our investment portfolio could significantly decrease our book value, thereby affecting our ability to conduct business. The recent investment market volatility, stock market decline and increased credit spreads have resulted in significant realized and unrealized losses in our investment portfolio. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we experienced 4.0 billion of pre-tax realized and unrealized losses on our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio was $39.7 at December 31, 2008.    Recent financial markets events create greater risks relating to impairment of investments.  As a part of our ongoing analysis of our investment portfolio, we are required to assess whether the debt and equity securities we hold for which we have recorded an unrealized loss have been “other than temporarily impaired”. Refer to Note 4 under Item 8 and our disclosure for details and results of our analysis. This analysis requires a high degree of judgment and requires us to make certain assessments about the potential for recovery of the assets we hold. The population of our investments in     23    Table of Contents    unrealized loss positions has dramatically increased as a result of recent disruption in the financial markets, which has increased the significance and potential impact of the judgments we have to make. A continued decline in relevant stock and other financial markets could adversely affect our net income and other financial results, and may result in additional impairments.    We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes.  Our operating results are affected by the performance of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio contains fixed income investments and may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Volatility in interest rates could also have an adverse effect on our investment income and operating results. For example, if interest rates decline, funds reinvested will earn less than the maturing investment.  Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including inflation, monetary and fiscal policies, and domestic and international political conditions. Although we take measures to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to effectively mitigate interest rate sensitivity. Our mitigation efforts include maintaining a high quality portfolio with a relatively short duration to reduce the effect of interest rate changes on book value. A significant increase in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our book value.    We may require additional capital or financing sources in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms.  Our future capital and financing requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses, as well as our investment performance. We may need to raise additional funds through financings or access funds through existing or new credit facilities. We also from time to time seek to refinance debt or credit as amounts become due or commitments expire. Any equity or debt financing or refinancing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result, and in any case such securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges that are senior to those of our Common Shares. Our access to funds under existing credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time, and we might be forced to replace credit sources in a difficult market. Also recent consolidation in the banking industry could lead to increased reliance on and exposure to particular institutions. If we cannot obtain adequate capital or sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, we could be forced to utilize assets otherwise available for our business operations, and our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. It is possible that, in the future, one or more of the rating agencies may reduce our existing ratings. If one or more of our ratings were downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs and our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted.    We may be required to post additional collateral because of changes in our reinsurance liabilities to U.S.-regulated insurance companies.  If our reinsurance liabilities increase, we may be required to post additional collateral for U.S.-based insurance company clients, if the ACE company providing the reinsurance is an unauthorized reinsurer for U.S. statutory purposes. The need to post this additional collateral, if significant enough, may require us to sell investments at a loss in order to provide securities of suitable credit quality, or otherwise secure adequate capital at an unattractive cost. This could adversely impact our net income, and liquidity and capital resources.    Our investment portfolio includes below investment-grade securities that have a higher degree of credit or default risk which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  Our fixed income portfolio is primarily invested in high quality, investment-grade securities. However, we invest a smaller portion of the portfolio in below investment-grade securities. At December 31, 2008, below investment-grade securities comprised approximately 5 percent of our fixed income portfolio. These securities, which pay a higher rate of interest, also have a higher degree of credit or default risk. These securities may also be less liquid in times of economic weakness or market disruptions. While we have put in place procedures to monitor the credit risk and liquidity of our invested assets, it is possible that, in periods of economic weakness (such as the current recession), we may experience default losses in our portfolio. This may result in a reduction of net income and capital.    24    Table of Contents   We could be adversely affected by a downgrade of the financial strength or financial enhancement ratings of Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) or any of its insurance subsidiaries, and our net income may be volatile because AGO assumes credit derivatives which are marked-to-market quarterly.  AGO is a Bermuda-based holding company that provides, through its operating subsidiaries, credit enhancement products to the public finance, structured finance, and mortgage markets. Our relationship with AGO is limited to our equity investment, which had a carrying value of $397 million, or $20.73 per share, compared with a market value of $218 million, or $11.40 per share, at December 31, 2008. We conduct no financial guaranty business directly or with AGO and we retain no financial guaranty exposures or reinsurance agreements with AGO.  The ratings assigned by the major rating agencies to AGO and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to periodic review and may be downgraded by one or more of the rating agencies at any time. For example, in November 2008, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the ratings of AGO and its insurance subsidiaries. Ratings downgrades have an adverse effect on AGO’s competitive position and its prospects for future business opportunities. A downgrade may also reduce the value of the reinsurance offered by AGO, which may no longer be of sufficient economic value to its customers to continue to cede to its subsidiaries at economically viable rates. In certain circumstances, a ratings downgrade may also entitle a ceding company to recapture business ceded to an AGO subsidiary or, alternatively, to retroactively increase cession commissions to an AGO subsidiary, either of which could result in a potentially significant negative impact to AGO earnings, and, therefore, our proportionate share thereof (21 percent at December 31, 2008).  AGO’s net income and, therefore, our proportionate share thereof, may be volatile because a portion of the credit risk AGO assumes is in the form of credit derivatives that are marked-to-market quarterly. Any event causing credit spreads on an underlying security referenced in a credit derivative in AGO’s portfolio either to widen or to tighten will affect the fair value of the credit derivative and may increase the volatility of AGO’s earnings and, therefore, our proportionate share thereof.  On November 14, 2008, Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) announced a definitive agreement to purchase Financial Security Assurance, Inc. (FSA) from Dexia SA (Dexia) for a purchase price of $722 million. This transaction will be funded by $361 million in cash and 44,657,000 common shares of AGO. The acquisition is expected to close in March 2009. AGO will finance the cash portion of the acquisition with proceeds from a public equity offering to WL Ross & Co LLC (WLR) at a per share price between a floor of $6.00 and a ceiling of $8.50. EITF 08-6, Equity Method Investment Accounting Considerations, requires ACE to account for AGO’s issuance of shares, and resulting dilutive effect, as if we had sold a proportionate share of our investment. Assuming completion of the planned share issuances, ACE will no longer be deemed to exert significant influence over AGO and must account for our AGO investment as an available-for-sale equity security in accordance with FAS 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities (FAS 115). FAS 115 requires that we then carry our AGO investment at fair value with any unrealized gains and losses reflected in other comprehensive income. Assuming AGO had completed its share issuances associated with the FSA acquisition on December 31, 2008, the application of FAS 115 would have reduced our book value by approximately $179 million.    Exchange Rates    Our operating results may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations.  Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar. Many of our non-U.S. companies maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies. Therefore, foreign exchange risk is generally limited to net assets denominated in those foreign currencies. Foreign exchange risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. Locally required capital levels are invested in home currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations. The principal currencies creating foreign exchange risk are the British pound sterling, the euro, and the Canadian dollar. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 7.8 percent of our net assets were denominated in foreign currencies. We may experience losses resulting from fluctuations in the values of non-U.S. currencies, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.    Regulatory and Other Governmental Developments    The regulatory regimes under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have an adverse effect on our business.  Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries conduct business globally. Our businesses in each jurisdiction are subject to varying degrees of regulation and supervision. The laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are domiciled require, among other things, that these subsidiaries maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus, and liquidity, meet solvency standards, and submit to periodic examinations of their financial condition. In some jurisdictions, laws and regulations also restrict payments of dividends and reductions of capital. Applicable statutes, regu-    25    Table of Contents    lations, and policies may also restrict the ability of these subsidiaries to write insurance and reinsurance policies, to make certain investments, and to distribute funds. The purpose of insurance laws and regulations generally is to protect insureds and ceding insurance companies, not our shareholders. We may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, applicable statutes and regulations. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under any applicable laws and regulations could result in restrictions on our ability to do business or undertake activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business and could subject us to fines and other sanctions. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject could have an adverse effect on our business.    Current legal and regulatory activities relating to insurance brokers and agents, contingent commissions, and certain finite-risk insurance products could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Beginning in 2004, ACE received numerous regulatory inquiries, subpoenas, interrogatories, and civil investigative demands from regulatory authorities in connection with pending investigations of insurance industry practices. ACE is cooperating and will continue to cooperate with such inquiries. We cannot assure you that we will not receive any additional requests for information or subpoenas or what actions, if any, any of these governmental agencies will take as a result of these investigations. Additionally, at this time, we are unable to predict the potential effects, if any, that these actions may have upon the insurance and reinsurance markets and industry business practices or what, if any, changes may be made to laws and regulations regarding the industry and financial reporting. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.    Current legislative activity relating to New York workers’ compensation surcharges and assessments could adversely affect our results of operations.  The New York legislature, as part of the 2009-10 State budget, is considering language that, if enacted, would require an insurer which (1) paid to the Workers’ Compensation Board various statutory assessments in an amount less than that insurer “collected” from insured employers in a given year and (2) “has identified any funds collected but not paid to the workers’ compensation board, as measurable and available, as of November 1, 2008” to pay retroactive assessments to the Board. The language, and impact, of the proposed legislation is uncertain because it uses terms and dates that are not readily identifiable with respect to insurers’ statutory financial statements. Our understanding is that the legislation is intended to address certain inconsistencies in the New York State laws regulating the calculation of Workers’ Compensation assessments by insurance carriers and the remittance of those funds to the State. Although it is impossible to predict the outcome of the legislative process, we are confident that ACE has complied with the law in all respects. We have established a contingency based on our best estimate of the potential liability that could result from the enactment of the legislation or other events surrounding this topic, based on the facts and circumstances at this time. Such contingency may be increased or decreased as circumstances develop.    Events may result in political, regulatory, and industry initiatives which could adversely affect our business.  The insurance industry is affected by political, judicial, and legal developments that may create new and expanded theories of liability. Such changes may result in delays or cancellations of products and services by insurers and reinsurers, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, the current economic climate and, in the U.S., the change in presidential administration in January 2009 present additional uncertainties and risks relating to increased regulation and the potential for increased involvement of the U.S. and other governments in the financial services industry.  Government intervention has also occurred in the insurance and reinsurance markets in relation to terrorism coverage both in the U.S. and through industry initiatives in other countries. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA), which was enacted in 2002 to ensure the availability of insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts in the U.S., was extended in 2007 for seven years, through 2014.  Government intervention and the possibility of future interventions has created uncertainty in the insurance and reinsurance markets about the definition of terrorist acts and the extent to which future coverages will extend to terrorist acts. Government regulators are generally concerned with the protection of policyholders to the exclusion of other constituencies, including shareholders of insurers and reinsurers. While we cannot predict the exact nature, timing, or scope of possible governmental initiatives, such proposals could adversely affect our business by:  • providing insurance and reinsurance capacity in markets and to consumers that we target;  • requiring our participation in industry pools and guaranty associations;  • expanding the scope of coverage under existing policies;  • regulating the terms of insurance and reinsurance policies; or  • disproportionately benefiting the companies of one country over those of another.    26    Table of Contents   Our operations in developing nations expose us to political developments that could have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition.  Our international operations include operations in various developing nations. Both current and future foreign operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable political developments including law changes, tax changes, regulatory restrictions, and nationalization of ACE operations without compensation. Adverse actions from any one country could have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition depending on the magnitude of the event and ACE’s net financial exposure at that time in that country.    We may become subject to additional Swiss regulation.  The Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority, which we refer to as “FINMA,” has the discretion to supervise our group activities. Under so-called “group supervision,” FINMA has the right to supervise the Company on a group-wide basis. The regulatory power of FINMA covers in particular the following areas:  • reporting on organization;  • reporting on structure;  • reporting on internal transactions;  • solvency;  • group/conglomerate report; and  • corporate governance/risk management/internal control system  In March 2008, we received written confirmation from the Federal Office of Private Insurance (FOPI), a FINMA predecessor insurance supervising authority, that it does not intend to subject us to group supervision so long as certain business parameters within Switzerland are not exceeded. While we currently intend to operate within these parameters, we cannot assure you that our future business needs may not require that we exceed these parameters or that FINMA will not change these parameters or otherwise determine to exercise group supervision over us. The costs and administrative burdens of such group supervision could be substantial.    Company Structure    Our ability to pay dividends and to make payments on indebtedness may be constrained by our holding company structure.  ACE Limited is a holding company and does not have any significant operations or assets other than its ownership of the shares of its operating insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. Dividends and other permitted distributions from our insurance subsidiaries are our primary source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including any future debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends to our shareholders. Some of our insurance subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting their ability to declare and pay dividends. The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could have an adverse effect on our operations and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders and/or meet our debt service obligations.    ACE Limited is a Swiss company; it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against it or its directors and executive officers.  ACE Limited is incorporated pursuant to the laws of Switzerland. In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon those persons or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws.  ACE has been advised by Niederer Kraft & Frey AG, its Swiss counsel, that there is doubt as to whether the courts in Switzerland would enforce:  • judgments of U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. Federal securities laws obtained in actions against it or its directors and officers, who reside outside the United States; or  • original actions brought in Switzerland against these persons or ACE predicated solely upon U.S. Federal securities laws.  ACE has also been advised by Niederer Kraft & Frey AG that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Switzerland providing for this enforcement, and there are grounds upon which Swiss courts may not enforce judgments of United States courts. Some remedies available under the laws of United States jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. Federal securities laws, would not be allowed in Swiss courts as contrary to that nation’s public policy.    27    Table of Contents   As a result of the increase in par value of our shares that occurred in connection with our Continuation to Switzerland, we will have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management than previously.  In connection with our Continuation to Switzerland, we increased the par value of our shares; as of December 31, 2008, our par value is CHF 33.14 per share. Under Swiss law, we generally may not issue registered shares below their par value. In the event there is a need to raise common equity capital at a time when the trading price of our registered shares is below our par value, we will need to obtain approval of our shareholders to decrease the par value of our registered shares. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain such shareholder approval. Furthermore, obtaining shareholder approval would require filing a preliminary proxy statement with the SEC and convening a meeting of shareholders which would delay any capital raising plans. Furthermore, any reduction in par value would decrease our ability to pay dividends as a repayment of share capital, which is not subject to Swiss withholding tax. See “Taxation – Shareholders may be subject to Swiss withholding taxes on the payment of dividends.”    Insurance and Reinsurance Markets    Competition in the insurance and reinsurance markets could reduce our margins.  Insurance and reinsurance markets are highly competitive. We compete on an international and regional basis with major U.S., Bermuda, European, and other international insurers and reinsurers and with underwriting syndicates, some of which have greater financial, marketing, and management resources than we do. We also compete with new companies that continue to be formed to enter the insurance and reinsurance markets. In addition, capital market participants have created alternative products that are intended to compete with reinsurance products. Increased competition could result in fewer submissions, lower premium rates, and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could reduce our margins.    Insurance and reinsurance markets are historically cyclical, and we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates.  The insurance and reinsurance markets have historically been cyclical, characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. An increase in premium levels is often offset by an increasing supply of insurance and reinsurance capacity, either by capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms, and fewer submissions for our underwriting services. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance and reinsurance markets significantly, as could periods of economic weakness (such as recession).    Charter Documents and Applicable Law    There are provisions in our charter documents that may reduce the voting rights of our Common Shares.  Our Articles of Association generally provide that shareholders have one vote for each Common Share held by them and are entitled to vote at all meetings of shareholders. However, the voting rights exercisable by a shareholder may be limited so that certain persons or groups are not deemed to hold 10 percent or more of the voting power conferred by our Common Shares. Under these provisions, some shareholders may have the ability to exercise their voting rights limited to less than one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the voting power of some shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. Our Board of Directors may refuse to register holders of shares as shareholders with voting rights based on certain grounds, including if the holder would, directly or indirectly, formally, constructively or beneficially own (as described in Articles 8 and 14 of our Articles of Association) or otherwise control voting rights with respect to 10 percent or more of the registered share capital recorded in the commercial register. In addition, the Board of Directors shall reject entry of holders of registered shares as shareholders with voting rights in the share register or shall decide on their deregistration when the acquirer or shareholder upon request does not expressly state that she/he has acquired or holds the shares in her/his own name and for her/his account.    Applicable laws may make it difficult to effect a change of control of our company.  Before a person can acquire control of a U.S. insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance commissioner of the state where the domestic insurer is domiciled. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer, the state insurance commissioner will consider such factors as the financial strength of the applicant, the integrity and management of the applicant’s Board of Directors and executive officers, the acquirer’s plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer, and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the consummation of the     28    Table of Contents    acquisition of control. Generally, state statutes provide that control over a domestic insurer is presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing 10 percent or more of the voting securities of the domestic insurer. Because a person acquiring 10 percent or more of our Common Shares would indirectly control the same percentage of the stock of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, the insurance change of control laws of various U.S. jurisdictions would likely apply to such a transaction. Laws of other jurisdictions in which one or more of our existing subsidiaries are, or a future subsidiary may be, organized or domiciled may contain similar restrictions on the acquisition of control of ACE.  While our Articles of Association limit the voting power of any shareholder to less than 10 percent, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory body would agree that a shareholder who owned 10 percent or more of our Common Shares did not, because of the limitation on the voting power of such shares, control the applicable insurance subsidiary.  These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change of control of the Company, including transactions that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable.    U.S. persons who own our Common Shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation.  Swiss corporate law, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. These differences include the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they have an interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits, and the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers.    Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and corporate documents could impede an attempt to replace our directors or to effect a change of control, which could diminish the value of our Common Shares.  Our Articles of Association contain provisions that may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors and could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. These provisions include a staggered Board of Directors and voting restrictions. These provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our Common Shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Common Shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.    Registered holders of our Common Shares must apply for enrollment in our share register as shareholders with voting rights in order to have voting rights; we may deny such registration under certain circumstances.  To be able to exercise voting rights, registered holders of the shares must apply to us for enrollment in our share register (Aktienbuch) as shareholders with voting rights. Our Board of Directors may refuse to register holders of shares as shareholder with voting rights based on certain grounds, including if the holder would, directly or indirectly, formally, constructively or beneficially own (as described in Articles 8 and 14 of our Articles of Association) or otherwise control voting rights with respect to 10 percent or more of the registered share capital recorded in the commercial register.    We are required to declare and pay dividends in Swiss francs and any currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and Swiss francs will affect the dollar value of the dividends we pay.  Under Swiss corporate law, we are required to declare and pay dividends, including distributions through a reduction in par value, in Swiss francs. Dividend payments will be made by our transfer agent in U.S. dollars converted at the U.S. dollar/Swiss franc exchange rate shortly before the payment date. As a result, under our current procedure shareholders are exposed to fluctuations in the U.S. dollar/Swiss franc exchange rate between the date used for purposes of calculating the Swiss franc amount of any proposed dividend or par value reduction and the relevant payment date.    Shareholder voting requirements under Swiss law may limit the Company’s flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management compared to what it had as a Cayman Islands company.  Swiss law allows our shareholders to authorize share capital which can be issued by our Board of Directors without shareholder approval but this authorization must be renewed by the shareholder every two years. Swiss law also does not provide as much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of stock as permitted in other jurisdictions. Swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders many corporate actions over which our Board of Directors previously had authority. For example, dividends must be approved by shareholders. While we do not believe that Swiss law requirements relating to our capital management will have an adverse effect on the Company, we cannot assure you that situations will not arise where such flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders.    29    Table of Contents   Taxation    Shareholders may be subject to Swiss withholding taxes on the payment of dividends.  Our dividends will generally be subject to a Swiss federal withholding tax at a rate of 35 percent. The withholding tax must be withheld from the gross distribution, and be paid to the Swiss Federal Tax Administration. A U.S. holder that qualifies for benefits under the Convention between the United States of America and the Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance of Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income, which we refer to as the “US-Swiss Treaty,” may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15 percent treaty rate (or for a full refund in the case of qualifying retirement arrangements). Payment of a dividend in the form of a par value reduction or qualifying paid-in capital reduction is not subject to Swiss withholding tax. In connection with and prior to the Company’s Continuation to Switzerland, we increased the par value of each share to CHF 33.74 (at December 31, 2008, the par value of the Common Shares was CHF 33.14 following two quarterly par value reductions in the amount of CHF 0.30). We have already begun, and currently intend to continue, subject to the requirements of our business and applicable law, to recommend to shareholders that dividends be paid in the form of a reduction of our par value or qualifying paid-in capital. We estimate we would be able to pay dividends in the form of a reduction of par value or qualifying paid-in capital, and thus exempt from Swiss withholding tax, for approximately 15-20 years after the Continuation. This range may vary depending upon changes in annual dividends, special dividends, fluctuations in U.S. dollar/Swiss franc exchange rates, increases/decreases in par value or qualifying paid-in capital, or changes or new interpretations to Swiss tax law or regulations. However, there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve a reduction in par value or qualifying paid-in capital each year, that we will be able to meet the other legal requirements for a reduction in par value, or that Swiss withholding rules will not be changed in the future.    We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28, 2016, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment.  The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, as amended, has given each of ACE Limited and its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries a written assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain, or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax would not be applicable to those companies or any of their respective operations, shares, debentures, or other obligations until March 28, 2016, except insofar as such tax would apply to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or is payable by us in respect of real property owned or leased by us in Bermuda. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016.    ACE Limited, our Bermuda-based management and holding company and our non-U.S. subsidiaries may become subject to U.S. tax, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment.  ACE Limited, ACE Group Management & Holdings Ltd. and our non-U.S. subsidiaries, including ACE Bermuda Insurance Ltd., and ACE Tempest Life Reinsurance Ltd., operate in a manner so that none of these companies should be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. withholding tax on some types of U.S. source investment income), because none of these companies should be treated as engaged in a trade or business within the United States. However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, we cannot be certain that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) will not contend successfully that any of ACE Limited or its non-U.S. subsidiaries is/are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If ACE Limited or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States, such entity could be subject to U.S. corporate income and additional branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business, in which case our results of operations and your investment could be adversely affected.    If you acquire 10 percent or more of ACE Limited’s shares, you may be subject to taxation under the “controlled foreign corporation” (the CFC) rules.  Under certain circumstances, a U.S. person who owns 10 percent or more of the voting power of a foreign corporation that is a CFC (a foreign corporation in which 10 percent U.S. shareholders own more than 50 percent of the voting power or value of the stock of a foreign corporation or more than 25 percent of a foreign insurance corporation) for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year must include in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such “10 percent U.S. Shareholder’s” pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income”, even if the subpart F income is not distributed to such 10 percent U.S. Shareholder if such 10 percent U.S. Shareholder owns (directly or indirectly through foreign entities) any of our     30    Table of Contents    shares on the last day of our fiscal year. Subpart F income of a foreign insurance corporation typically includes foreign personal holding company income (such as interest, dividends, and other types of passive income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income) attributable to the insurance of risks situated outside the CFC’s country of incorporation.  We believe that because of the dispersion of our share ownership, provisions in our organizational documents that limit voting power, and other factors, no U.S. person or U.S. partnership who acquires shares of ACE Limited directly or indirectly through one or more foreign entities should be required to include our subpart F income in income under the CFC rules of US tax law. It is possible, however, that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge, in which case your investment could be adversely affected if you own 10 percent or more of ACE Limited’s stock.    U.S. persons who hold shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at ordinary income rates on their proportionate share of our Related Person Insurance Income (RPII).  If the RPII of any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries (each a “Non-U.S. Insurance Subsidiary”) were to equal or exceed 20 percent of that company’s gross insurance income in any taxable year and direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to those insureds) own directly or indirectly through foreign entities 20 percent or more of the voting power or value of ACE Limited, then a U.S. person who owns any shares of ACE Limited (directly or indirectly through foreign entities) on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such person’s pro rata share of such company’s RPII for the entire taxable year, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. persons at that date regardless of whether such income is distributed. In addition, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization may be treated as unrelated business taxable income. We believe that the gross RPII of each Non-U.S. Insurance Subsidiary did not in prior years of operation and is not expected in the foreseeable future to equal or exceed 20 percent of each such company’s gross insurance income, and we do not expect the direct or indirect insureds of each Non-U.S. Insurance Subsidiary (and persons related to such insureds) to directly or indirectly own 20 percent or more of either the voting power or value of our shares, but we cannot be certain that this will be the case because some of the factors which determine the extent of RPII may be beyond our control. If these thresholds are met or exceeded, and if you are an affected U.S. person, your investment could be adversely affected.    U.S. persons who hold shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if we are considered to be a Passive Foreign Investment Company (PFIC) for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  If ACE Limited is considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. person who owns any shares of ACE Limited will be subject to adverse tax consequences, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed, in which case your investment could be adversely affected. In addition, if ACE Limited were considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning shares, such individual’s heirs or estate would not be entitled to a “step-up” in the basis of the shares which might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax laws. We believe that we are not, have not been, and currently do not expect to become, a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We cannot assure you, however, that we will not be deemed a PFIC by the IRS. If we were considered a PFIC, it could have adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation.    U.S. tax-exempt organizations who own our shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income.  A U.S. tax-exempt organization may recognize unrelated business taxable income if a portion of our insurance income is allocated to the organization, which generally would be the case if either we are a CFC and the tax-exempt shareholder is a 10 percent U.S. shareholder or there is RPII, certain exceptions do not apply, and the tax-exempt organization, directly or indirectly through foreign entities, owns any shares of ACE Limited. Although we do not believe that any U.S. persons or U.S. partnerships should be allocated such insurance income, we cannot be certain that this will be the case. Potential U.S. tax-exempt investors are advised to consult their tax advisors.    The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Union are considering measures that might encourage countries to increase our taxes.  A number of multilateral organizations, including the European Union, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), the Financial Action Task Force, and the Financial Stability Forum (FSF) have, in recent years, identified     31    Table of Contents    some countries as not participating in adequate information exchange, engaging in harmful tax practices, or not maintaining adequate controls to prevent corruption, such as money laundering activities. Recommendations to limit such harmful practices are under consideration by these organizations, and a report published on November 27, 2001 by the OECD at the behest of the FSF titled “Behind the Corporate Veil: Using Corporate Entities for Illicit Purposes”, contains an extensive discussion of specific recommendations. The OECD has threatened non-member jurisdictions that do not agree to cooperate with the OECD with punitive sanctions by OECD member countries, though specific sanctions have yet to be adopted by OECD member countries. It is as yet unclear what these sanctions will be, who will adopt them, and when or if they will be imposed. In an April 18, 2002 report, updated as of June 2004, Bermuda was not listed as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction by the OECD because it previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information, and the elimination of regimes for financial and other services that attract businesses with no substantial domestic activity. We cannot assure you, however, that the action taken by Bermuda would be sufficient to preclude all effects of the measures or sanctions described above, which, if ultimately adopted, could adversely affect our Bermuda subsidiaries. However, it should be noted that in respect of exchange of information, Bermuda has entered into Tax Information Exchange Agreements (“TIEAs”) with Australia and the United Kingdom and that other TIEA negotiations are currently underway.    Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could adversely affect an investment in our shares.  Legislation is periodically introduced in the U.S. Congress intended to eliminate some perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United States but have certain U.S. connections. For example, companion bills are expected to be introduced in the House of Representatives and the Senate during the 111th Congress that began recently, that would effectively render cross border affiliate reinsurance by foreign-owned U.S. insurance/reinsurance companies impossible regardless of whether or not it is properly priced under the internationally accepted arms-length standard. If enacted, such a law could have an adverse impact on us or our shareholders. It is possible that other legislative proposals could emerge in the future that could have an adverse impact on us or our shareholders.      ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments