Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur business results depend on our ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational change and achieve cost savings and operating efficiency initiatives. Our Board of Directors has implemented and plans to continue to implement initiatives to reduce costs and increase operating efficiencies. There can be no assurance that we will realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits of these initiatives. Our financial goals assume a level of productivity improvement and cost reduction. If we are unable to deliver these expected productivity improvements and reduction in expenses, while continuing to invest in business growth, or if the volume and nature of change overwhelms available resources, our business operations and financial results could be materially and adversely impacted. Our ability to successfully manage and execute these initiatives and realize expected savings and benefits in the amounts and at the times anticipated is important to our business success. Any failure to do so, which could result from our inability to successfully execute organizational change, cost-cutting initiatives and productivity improvement plans, changes in global or regional economic conditions, competition, changes in the industries in which we compete, unanticipated costs or charges, loss of key personnel and other factors described herein, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations.Lower than expected revenue growth or shifts in our revenue mix could adversely affect our results of operations. Our revenue growth and mix could vary over time due to a number of factors, including timing of contracts signing, changes in the health of our end markets, unexpected client attrition, and the mix of software, hardware, devices, maintenance, support and services revenues, which carry different margin rates which can vary from period to period. Our operating results could be harmed by changes in revenue mix and costs, together with numerous other factors, including rapid growth in lower margin services business, declines in software, and growth in non-cash expenses, such as amortization and depreciation. Any one of these factors or the cumulative effects of certain of these factors may result in significant fluctuations in our results of operations. This variability and unpredictability could result in our failure to meet internal expectations or those of securities analysts or investors for a particular period. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our shares could decline.25Table of ContentsOur business could be negatively affected as a result of any future proxy fight or the actions of activist shareholders. Although our engagement with activist shareholder Starboard Value LP and certain of its affiliates (collectively, "Starboard") was settled as a result of our entry into a cooperation agreement, future proxy contests or related activist activities with Starboard or other activist shareholders could adversely affect our business for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, the fact that responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming and can create perceived uncertainties as to our future direction and governance that may result in the loss of potential business opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, business partners, customers and others important to our success. Any future proxy contest or activist activities could also cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility. Further, if a proxy contest or a related settlement results in a change in the composition of our Board of Directors it could, in certain circumstances, give third parties certain rights under our existing contractual obligations, which could adversely affect our business.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds