Item 1A. Risk Factors  You should carefully consider each of the following risks described below and all of the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K in evaluating us. Our business, financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks.  This annual report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.”  Risks Related to the Current Environment and Recent Developments  The continued global economic downturn and financial market instability have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, access to funding and the trading price of our common stock.  The continued global economic downturn and financial market instability have adversely affected unemployment rates, consumer spending, consumer indebtedness, availability of consumer credit, asset values, investments and liquidity. These factors, along with an already high level of consumer indebtedness, have adversely affected the ability and willingness of customers to pay amounts owed to us. This environment has resulted in increased delinquencies and charge-offs. The owned over 30 days delinquent rate was 4.92% at November 30, 2009, up from 4.35% at November 30, 2008, and the full-year owned net charge-off rate was 7.45% for 2009, up from 4.59% for 2008. The economic downturn may continue, unemployment may remain elevated or rise, home values may continue to be depressed and consumer credit availability may continue to decrease. The ability and willingness of customers to pay amounts owed to us could continue to be adversely affected, which would further increase delinquencies and charge-offs and materially adversely affect our profitability. In addition, the deterioration in economic conditions could reduce the usage of our cards, the number of transactions on our cards and the average purchase amount of transactions on our cards, which would reduce transaction fees and interest income and thereby adversely affect profitability. We rely heavily on our credit card business to generate earnings. Our interest income for credit card loans was $2.8 billion for the 2009 fiscal year. Excluding settlement payments received from Visa, this was 59% of revenues (defined as net interest income plus other income).  Deterioration in the global capital markets has led to concerns by market participants about the stability of financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, resulting in a contraction of available credit. Although we raised funds in capital market issuances in the third and fourth quarters of 2009, there is no assurance that the markets will be open to us in the future. In addition, it is uncertain whether the securitization markets will be available on terms or volumes that are attractive to us going forward, particularly after the Federal Reserve’s Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility Program (“TALF”) ends in March 2010. See “– If we do not securitize our receivables, it may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cost of funds and overall financial condition.” Therefore, we continue to emphasize deposits as an ongoing funding source. See “– An inability to accept or maintain deposits in the future could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business.” Further deterioration of the financial markets could materially adversely affect our capital, funding and liquidity position as well as our overall financial condition.  These macroeconomic trends affect key drivers of our results, including our loan balances outstanding, credit losses (including provisions and charge-offs) and cost of funding. These trends may cause our earnings and margins to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and diverge from expectations of analysts and investors, who may have differing assumptions regarding their impact on our business, and may impact the trading price of our common stock.  The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 will significantly impact our business practices and our results of operations.  The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009, or the CARD Act, requires us to make fundamental changes to many of our current business practices, including marketing, underwriting, pricing and billing. For example, we currently have the ability to increase interest rates on existing balances to respond to market conditions    -21-    Table of Contents  and credit risk. The CARD Act will restrict our ability to manage market and individual risk in this manner. Restrictions on our ability to reprice accounts will limit our ability to extend credit to new customers and provide additional credit to current customers. The provisions related to complying with restrictions on over-limit fees and payment allocation will also significantly change our business as we have already advised our customers that we will no longer be charging over-limit fees and have made changes to our payment allocation practices. Several provisions of the CARD Act became effective in August 2009, but most of the requirements will become effective in February 2010 and others will become effective in August 2010. Legislation has been proposed to accelerate the effective date of all of the CARD Act provisions effective as soon as the legislation is enacted, but prospects for enactment are uncertain. Although the Federal Reserve has issued final rules implementing most of the provisions of the CARD Act, it has yet to issue rules implementing the provisions that take effect in August 2010. Accordingly, it is difficult to assess the impact of those provisions at this time.  The CARD Act’s restrictions on finance charges and fees are expected to result in reduced interest income and loan fee income for us. We rely heavily on interest income. Our interest income from credit card loans was $2.8 billion for the 2009 fiscal year, which was 59% of revenues (defined as net interest income plus other income), excluding settlement payments received from Visa. Our loan fee income was $247.3 million for the 2009 fiscal year, which was 5% of revenues excluding the Visa payments. For the 2008 fiscal year, our interest income from credit card loans was $2.2 billion and our loan fee income was $262.6 million.  While we have already made, and anticipate making additional, changes to our pricing, credit and marketing practices that are designed to lessen the impact of the changes required by the CARD Act, there is no assurance that we will be successful. The long-term impact of the CARD Act on credit card industry profitability generally, and on our business practices and revenues, will depend upon consumer behavior and the actions of our competitors, which are difficult to predict at this time. Consumers may choose to use credit cards less frequently or for smaller dollar amounts. We may have to reconsider certain strategies in order to remain competitive. If we are not able to lessen the impact of the changes required by the CARD Act, the changes will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  As a participant in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to restrictions and obligations, including limitations on our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our capital stock.  We issued and sold to the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the “U.S. Treasury”) senior preferred stock and a ten-year warrant to purchase our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.2 billion in March 2009. The issuance was part of the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”). Participation in the CPP subjects us to specific restrictions under the terms of the CPP, including limits on our ability to pay dividends (quarterly dividends on our common stock are limited to $0.06 per share or less) and repurchase our capital stock, limitations on executive compensation, and increased oversight by the U.S. Treasury, regulators and Congress under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended (“EESA”). For details regarding these restrictions and other potential restrictions affecting the financial services industry generally, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Legislative and Regulatory Developments” and “– Liquidity and Capital Resources – U.S. Treasury Capital Purchase Program.”  The relatively recent withdrawal of several of our banking competitors from the CPP may leave us at a competitive disadvantage as those institutions are no longer subject to the restrictions imposed under the CPP. Withdrawing from the CPP requires approval of banking regulators and we may not be able to obtain such approval, or a condition of obtaining such approval may require us to raise additional capital. Unanticipated consequences of participation in the CPP could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, access to funding and the trading price of our common stock.  Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by new regulations and supervision to which we are subject as a result of becoming a bank holding company.  We became a bank holding company in March 2009. As a bank holding company, we are required to meet certain risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements and submit financial and other reports to the Federal Reserve. Further, we are subject to organization-wide oversight and examination by the Federal Reserve, including scrutiny of our risk management program; business strategy, earnings, capital and cash flow; anti-money laundering program; and examination of our non-bank businesses, including Discover Network, PULSE and Diners Club, and their relationships    -22-    Table of Contents  with our banking subsidiaries. Finally, our business activities are restricted to those permitted by the Federal Reserve. If we fail to satisfy regulatory requirements applicable to bank holding companies or if the Federal Reserve uses its supervisory discretion to impose new or different limitations or requirements on our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  Risks to Our Business  We face competition from other credit card issuers, and we may not be able to compete effectively, which could result in fewer customers and lower account balances and could materially adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.  The credit card issuing business is highly competitive. We compete with other credit card issuers on the basis of a number of factors, including merchant acceptance, products and services, incentives and reward programs, brand, network, reputation and pricing. This competition affects our ability to obtain applicants for our credit cards, increase usage of our credit cards, maximize the revenue generated by card usage and generate customer loyalty and satisfaction so as to minimize the number of customers switching to other credit card brands or debit cards. Competition is also increasingly based on the value provided to the customer by rewards programs. Many credit card issuers have instituted rewards programs that are similar to ours, and issuers may in the future institute rewards programs that are more attractive to customers than our programs.  In addition, because most domestically issued credit cards, other than those issued by American Express, are issued on the Visa and MasterCard networks, most other card issuers benefit from the dominant position and marketing and pricing power of Visa and MasterCard. If we are unable to compete successfully, or if competing successfully requires us to take aggressive actions in response to competitors’ actions, our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  We incur considerable expenses in competing with other credit card issuers, and many of our competitors have greater scale, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage.  We incur considerable expenses in competing with other credit card issuers to attract and retain customers and increase card usage. A substantial portion of these expenses relates to marketing expenditures. We incurred expenses of $406.0 million and $530.9 million, in the 2009 and 2008 fiscal years, respectively, for marketing and business development. Because of the highly competitive nature of the credit card issuing business and increasing marketing challenges, a primary method of competition among credit card issuers, including us, has been to offer rewards programs, low introductory interest rates, attractive standard purchase rates and balance transfer programs that offer a favorable annual percentage rate or other financial incentives for a specified length of time on account balances transferred from another credit card. This type of competition has adversely affected credit card yields, and customers may frequently switch credit cards or transfer their balances to another card. There can be no assurance that any of the expenses we incur or incentives we offer to attempt to acquire and maintain accounts and increase card usage will be effective.  Furthermore, many of our competitors are larger than we are, have greater financial resources than we do and/or have lower capital, funding and operating costs than we have and expect to have, and have assets such as branch locations and co-brand relationships that may help them compete more effectively. In addition, there has been consolidation among credit card issuers, resulting in even greater pooled resources. We may be at a competitive disadvantage as a result of the greater scale of many of our competitors.  We face competition from other operators of payment networks, and we may not be able to compete effectively, which could result in reduced transaction volume, limited merchant acceptance of our cards, limited issuance of cards on our networks by third parties and materially reduced earnings.  We face substantial and increasingly intense competition in the payments industry. We compete with other payment networks to attract third-party issuers to issue credit and debit cards and other card products on the Discover, PULSE and Diners Club networks. Competition with other operators of payment networks is generally based on issuer interchange fees, fees paid to networks (including switch fees), merchant acceptance, network functionality and other economic terms. Competition also is based on customer perception of service quality, brand image, reputation and market share.    -23-    Table of Contents Many of our competitors are well established, larger than we are and/or have greater financial resources than we do. These competitors have provided financial incentives to card issuers, such as large cash signing bonuses for new programs, funding for and sponsorship of marketing programs and other bonuses. Visa and MasterCard each have been in existence for more than 40 years and enjoy greater merchant acceptance and broader global brand recognition than we do. Although we have made progress in merchant acceptance, we have not achieved market parity with MasterCard and Visa. In addition, Visa and MasterCard have entered into long-term arrangements with many financial institutions that may have the effect of discouraging those institutions from issuing credit cards on the Discover Network or issuing debit cards on the PULSE Network. Some of these arrangements are exclusive, or nearly exclusive, which further limits our ability to conduct material amounts of business with these institutions.  Visa and MasterCard also may enact new rules or enforce other rules in the future, including rules that could have the effect of limiting the ability of issuing banks to use the PULSE Network, which may materially adversely affect our ability to compete. For example, MasterCard enacted a rule requiring banks that issue MasterCard signature debit cards to also participate in MasterCard’s affiliated PIN debit network. MasterCard and Visa completed initial public offerings, which provided them with significant capital and may enhance their strategic flexibility. American Express is also a strong competitor, with international acceptance, high transaction fees and an upscale brand image. Internationally, American Express competes in the same market segments as Diners Club. We may face challenges in increasing international acceptance on our networks, particularly if third parties that we rely on to issue Diners Club cards, increase card acceptance, and market our brands do not perform to our expectations.  Furthermore, as a result of their dominant market position and considerable marketing and pricing power, Visa and MasterCard have been able to increase transaction fees charged to merchants in an effort to retain and grow their issuer volume. If we are unable to remain competitive on issuer interchange and other incentives, we may be unable to offer adequate pricing to third-party issuers while maintaining sufficient net revenues. At the same time, increasing the transaction fees charged to merchants or increasing acquirer interchange could adversely affect our effort to increase merchant acceptance of credit cards issued on the Discover Network and may cause merchant acceptance to decrease. This, in turn, could adversely affect our ability to attract third-party issuers and our ability to maintain or grow revenues from our proprietary network. Similarly, the PULSE Network operates in the highly competitive PIN debit business with well-established and financially strong network competitors (particularly Visa) that have the ability to offer significant incentives and bundled products to financial institutions.  In addition, if we are unable to maintain sufficient network functionality to be competitive with other networks, or if our competitors develop better data security solutions or more innovative products and services than we do, our ability to attract third-party issuers and maintain or increase the revenues generated by our proprietary card issuing business may be materially adversely affected. An inability to compete effectively with other payment networks could result in reduced transaction volume, limited merchant acceptance of our cards, limited issuance of cards on our network by third parties and materially reduced earnings.  In addition, the deterioration in the capital markets and costs of complying with recently enacted legislation has adversely affected some of our issuers, merchant acquirers and licensees, which are financial institutions. The failures of financial institutions and increased consolidation in the industry decrease our opportunities for new business and may result in the termination of existing business relationships if a business partner is acquired or goes out of business. In addition, financial institutions may have decreased interest in engaging in new card issuance opportunities or expanding existing card issuance relationships, which would inhibit our ability to grow our payment services business.  If we are unsuccessful in achieving card acceptance across our networks, we may be unable to sustain and grow our international network business.  In 2008, we acquired the Diners Club network, brand, trademarks, employees, and license agreements. We have made significant progress toward, but have not completed, achieving card acceptance across the Diners Club network, the Discover Network and PULSE to allow Discover customers to use their cards at merchant and ATM locations that accept Diners Club cards in a growing number of countries around the world and to allow Diners Club customers to use their cards on the Discover Network in North America and on the PULSE Network domestically and internationally.  The success of our acquisition of Diners Club depends upon our ability to maintain the full operability of the Diners Club network for existing Diners Club cardholders, network licensees and merchants. We continue to rely on the    -24-    Table of Contents  assistance of Citigroup during a transition period for certain network and operational support services. If we were to lose the assistance of Citigroup, we may face difficulty maintaining operations at the same level. We rely upon numerous network partners for merchant acceptance for existing Diners Club customers. MasterCard’s termination of cash access for Diners Club cardholders in the summer of 2009 limits the availability of cash access locations for Diners Club cardholders to ATMs available through our PULSE Network and certain over-the-counter cash access locations. Also, we have rerouted almost all merchant transactions for foreign Diners Club cards transacting in North America from the MasterCard acceptance network to the Discover Network, which we expect to complete in 2010. If we are unable to continue to offer either acceptable North American merchant acceptance or sufficient cash access locations to existing Diners Club customers, we may experience decreased transaction volume, which would reduce our revenues. The long-term success of our acquisition of Diners Club depends upon achieving card acceptance across our networks, which could include higher overall costs or longer timeframes than anticipated. If we are unable to successfully achieve card acceptance across our networks, we may be unable to achieve the synergies we anticipate and grow our business internationally.  Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk of loss to us.  Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor and report the types of risk to which we are subject, including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and strategic risk. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a framework of policies, procedures and reporting requirements. However, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.  Our business depends on our ability to manage our credit risks, and failing to manage these risks successfully may result in high charge-off rates, which would slow our growth and materially adversely affect our business, profitability and financial condition.   Our success depends on our ability to manage our credit risk while attracting new customers with profitable usage patterns. We select our customers, manage their accounts and establish terms and credit limits using proprietary scoring models and other analytical techniques that are designed to set terms and credit limits to appropriately compensate us for the credit risk we accept, while encouraging customers to use their available credit. The models and approaches we use may not accurately predict future charge-offs due to, among other things, inaccurate assumptions. While we continually seek to improve our assumptions and models, we may make modifications that unintentionally cause them to be less predictive or incorrectly interpret the data produced by these models in setting our credit policies.  Our ability to manage credit risk and avoid high charge-off rates may be adversely affected by economic conditions that may be difficult to predict, particularly the continuing deterioration in the consumer credit environment. In anticipation of continued challenging economic conditions, we have increased our provision for loan losses as a result of higher charge-offs and in anticipation of higher future charge-off rates. The full-year owned net charge-off rate was 7.45% for 2009, up from 4.59% in 2008. At November 30, 2009 and 2008, $712 million, or 3.01%, and $617 million, or 2.45%, of our loan receivables were non-performing (defined as loans over 90 days delinquent and accruing interest plus loans not accruing interest). We expect the challenges in the consumer credit environment to continue, leading to increasing delinquency trends and higher charge-off rates. There can be no assurance that our underwriting and portfolio management strategies will permit us to avoid high charge-off levels, or that our provision for loan losses will be sufficient to cover actual losses.  A customer’s ability to repay us can be negatively impacted by increases in their payment obligations to other lenders under mortgage, credit card and other consumer loans. Such changes can result from increases in base lending rates or structured increases in payment obligations, and could reduce the ability of our customers to meet their payment obligations to other lenders and to us. In addition, a customer’s ability to repay us can be negatively impacted by the restricted availability of credit to consumers generally, including reduced and closed lines of credit. Customers with insufficient cash flow to fund daily living expenses and lack of access to other sources of credit may be more likely to increase their card usage and ultimately default on their payment obligations to us, resulting in higher credit losses in our portfolio. Our collection operations may not compete effectively to secure more of customers’ diminished cash flow than    -25-    Table of Contents  our competitors. In addition, we may not identify customers who are likely to default on their payment obligations to us quickly and reduce our exposure by closing credit lines and restricting authorizations, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.  Our ability to manage credit risk also may be adversely affected by legal or regulatory changes (such as bankruptcy laws, minimum payment regulations and re-age guidance), competitors’ actions and consumer behavior, as well as inadequate collections staffing, techniques, models and vendor performance.  We continue to add to our personal and student lending products and have expanded our marketing of these products. Our personal and student loan portfolios grew to $1.4 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, at November 30, 2009, compared to $1.0 billion and $300 million, respectively, at November 30, 2008. We have less experience in these areas as compared to our traditional products and segments, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to grow these products in accordance with our strategies, manage our credit risk or generate sufficient revenue to cover our expenses in these markets. Our failure to manage our credit risks may materially adversely affect our profitability and our ability to grow these products, limiting our ability to further diversify our business.  Adverse market conditions or an inability to effectively manage our liquidity risk could negatively impact our ability to meet our liquidity and funding needs, which could materially adversely impact our business operations and overall financial condition.  We must effectively manage the liquidity risk to which we are exposed. We require liquidity in order to meet cash requirements such as day-to-day operating expenses, extensions of credit on our consumer loans and required payments of principal and interest on our borrowings. Our primary sources of liquidity and funding are payments on our credit card loan receivables, deposits, cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets (consisting mainly of cash or cash equivalents) and proceeds from securitization transactions and securities offerings. We may maintain too much liquidity, which can be costly and limit financial flexibility, or we may be too illiquid, which could result in financial distress during a liquidity stress event.  Our liquidity reserve had a balance of approximately $14.2 billion as of November 30, 2009, compared to $9.4 billion as of November 30, 2008. We have increased our liquidity reserve in anticipation of approximately $12.5 billion of asset-backed securities and deposit maturities in the first half of 2010. Our total contingent liquidity sources as of November 30, 2009 amounted to $22.9 billion, consisting of $14.2 billion in our liquidity reserve, $4.8 billion Federal discount window capacity, $2.4 billion in a revolving credit facility, and $1.5 billion in asset-backed conduit capacity.  In the event that our current sources of liquidity do not satisfy our needs, we would be required to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit to the financial services industry and our credit ratings. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital, credit or deposit markets may limit our ability to replace maturing liabilities in a timely manner and satisfy other funding requirements. As such, we may be forced to delay raising funding, issue shorter-term securities than desired, or bear an unattractive cost of funding, which could decrease profitability and significantly reduce financial flexibility. Further, in disorderly financial markets or for other reasons, it may be difficult or impossible to liquidate some of our investments to meet our liquidity needs.  An inability to accept or maintain deposits in the future could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business.  We obtain deposits from consumers either directly or through affinity relationships (“direct-to-consumer deposits”) and through third-party brokers who offer our deposits to their customers (“brokered deposits”). We have increased and plan to continue to increase our direct-to-consumer deposit funding. We had $12.6 billion in direct-to-consumer deposits and $19.5 billion in brokered deposits as of November 30, 2009, compared to $6.2 billion in direct-to-consumer deposits and $22.3 billion in brokered deposits as of November 30, 2008.  Many other financial services firms are increasing their use of deposit funding, including recently-formed bank holding companies, and as such we may experience increased competition in the deposit markets. We cannot predict how this    -26-    Table of Contents  increased competition will affect deposit renewal rates, costs or availability. If we are required to offer higher interest rates to attract or maintain deposits, our funding costs will be adversely impacted. In addition, our ability to maintain existing or obtain additional deposits may be impacted by factors beyond our control, including perceptions about our financial strength, which could lead to consumers choosing not to make deposits with us or third-party brokers not offering our deposit products.  Our ability to obtain deposit funding and offer competitive interest rates on deposits is also dependent on capital levels of our bank subsidiaries. The FDIA prohibits a bank, including our subsidiary Discover Bank, from accepting brokered deposits or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited), unless (1) it is well-capitalized or (2) it is adequately capitalized and receives a waiver from the FDIC. A bank that is adequately capitalized may not pay an interest rate on any deposit, including direct-to-consumer deposits, in excess of 75 basis points over the national rate published by the FDIC. There are no such restrictions on a bank that is well-capitalized. While Discover Bank met the FDIC’s definition of “well-capitalized” as of November 30, 2009, there can be no assurance that it will continue to meet this definition. For a comparison of Discover Bank’s capital ratios to the “well-capitalized” capital requirements, see Note 21: Capital Adequacy to our consolidated financial statements. Additionally, our regulators can adjust the requirements to be well-capitalized at any time and have authority to place limitations on our deposit businesses, including the interest rate we pay on deposits. An inability to attract or maintain deposits in the future could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business.  If we do not securitize our receivables, it may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cost of funds and overall financial condition.  Historically, we have used the securitization of credit card receivables, which involves the transfer of receivables to a trust and the issuance by the trust of beneficial interests to third-party investors, as a significant source of funding. Our average level of securitized borrowings, excluding retained issuances, was $22.6 billion and $26.9 billion for the 2009 and 2008 fiscal years, respectively. Due to market events and disruption in the capital markets, the public and private securitization markets were not available to us from mid-2008 and into the first half of 2009. We re-entered the securitization markets in July and September 2009, with $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, of public asset-backed securities issuances out of our securitization trusts that were eligible for funding under TALF. It is uncertain, however, whether the securitization markets will be available on terms or volumes that are attractive to us going forward, particularly after TALF expires in March 2010.  Further, while we have capacity to issue new asset-backed securities from our securitization trusts, there has been uncertainty in the securitization market recently over existing FDIC guidance regarding standards for legal isolation of the transferred assets following the change in accounting rules pertaining to transfers of financial assets and consolidations. This uncertainty has made it difficult to obtain necessary credit ratings for the issuances of asset-backed securities, including the required ratings for securities to qualify as eligible securities under TALF. Issuances after TALF expires on March 31, 2010 are subject to the final determination of the FDIC regarding the legal isolation standard, the potential framework of which was described in the FDIC’s Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in December 2009. The form that this rule will ultimately take is uncertain at this time, but it may impact our ability and/or desire to issue asset-backed securities in the future.  In addition, legislation approved in the U.S. House of Representatives in December 2009, and a similar measure under consideration in the U.S. Senate, propose extensive changes to the laws regulating financial services firms. These proposals include new requirements for the securitization market, including new rules around risk retention and disclosure. The form that this legislation may ultimately take is unknown at this time, but this legislation may impact our ability and desire to securitize our receivables.  The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) is considering changes to the disclosure requirements for asset securitizations and changes to the requirements for shelf registration of asset securitizations. At this point, we cannot predict what specific changes will be proposed or adopted. However, significant changes to the disclosure requirements or registration process for our securitizations could make them more expensive or reduce our access to the capital markets, in either case making securitization less viable as a funding source.    -27-    Table of Contents Our ability to raise funding through the securitization market generally, through TALF or otherwise, depends on our ratings. If we are not able to satisfy rating agency requirements, such as completing certain credit enhancement actions as requested by the agencies, to maintain the ratings of asset-backed securities issued by our securitization trusts, it could limit our ability to access the securitization markets. Additional factors affecting the extent to which we will securitize our credit card receivables in the future include the overall credit quality of our receivables, the costs of securitizing our receivables and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax requirements governing securitization transactions. A prolonged inability to securitize our receivables may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cost of funds and overall financial condition.  The occurrence of events that result in the early amortization of our existing securitization transactions or an inability to delay the accumulation of principal collections in our securitization trusts would materially adversely affect our liquidity.  Our liquidity would be materially adversely affected by the occurrence of events that could result in the early amortization of our existing securitization transactions. Credit card securitizations are normally structured as “revolving transactions” that do not distribute to securitization investors their share of monthly principal payments on the receivables during the revolving period, and instead use those principal payments to fund the purchase of replacement receivables. The occurrence of “early amortization events” may result in termination of the revolving periods of our securitization transactions, which would require us to repay the affected outstanding securitized borrowings over a period of a few months. Our average level of securitized borrowings, excluding retained issuances, was $22.6 billion and $26.9 billion for the 2009 and 2008 fiscal years, respectively, and we recorded $1.9 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively, in securitization income. Early amortization events include, for example, insufficient cash flows in the securitized pool of receivables to meet contractual requirements (also known as “excess spread”), certain breaches of representations, warranties or covenants in the agreements relating to the securitization and receivership or insolvency of Discover Bank. For more information on excess spread, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Securitization Financing.” An early amortization event would negatively impact our liquidity, and require us to rely on alternative funding sources, which may or may not be available at the time.  Our securitization structure includes a requirement that we accumulate principal collections into a restricted account in the amount of scheduled maturities on a pro rata basis over the 12 months prior to a security’s maturity date. We have the option under our securitization documents to shorten this accumulation period, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including reaffirmation from each of the rating agencies of the security’s required rating. Historically, we have exercised this option to shorten the accumulation period to one month prior to maturity. If we were to determine that the payment rate on the underlying receivables would not support a one-month accumulation period, or if one or more of the rating agencies were to require an accumulation period of longer than one month, we would need to begin accumulating principal cash flows earlier than we have historically. A lengthening of the accumulation period would negatively impact our liquidity, requiring management to implement mitigating measures. During periods of significant maturity levels, absent management actions, the lengthening of the accumulation period could materially adversely affect our financial condition.  A downgrade in the credit ratings of our securities could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition.  We, along with Discover Bank, are regularly evaluated by the ratings agencies, and their ratings for our long-term debt and other securities, including asset-backed securities issued by our securitization trusts, are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors that may not be within our control. We currently maintain an investment grade long-term debt rating with Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”) (BBB with negative outlook) and Standard and Poor’s Rating Service (“S&P”) (BBB- with stable outlook). In 2009, Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) downgraded our long-term debt rating from Baa3 with negative outlook to Ba1 with negative outlook. Our current Ba1 rating from Moody’s is below investment grade. Downgrades in our long-term debt ratings could materially adversely affect our cost of funds, access to capital and funding, and overall financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings or that our credit ratings will not be lowered or withdrawn in its entirety.  Discover Bank currently maintains an investment grade long-term debt rating with Fitch (BBB with negative outlook) and S&P (BBB with stable outlook). Moody’s downgraded the long-term debt rating of Discover Bank in 2009 from Baa2 with    -28-    Table of Contents  negative outlook to Baa3 with negative outlook, which remains at investment grade level. Failure to maintain an investment grade long-term debt rating could materially adversely affect the cost of funds, access to capital and funding, and overall financial condition of Discover Bank. There can be no assurance that Discover Bank will be able to maintain its current credit ratings or that its credit ratings will not be lowered or withdrawn in their entirety.  The credit ratings of the securities issued by our securitization trusts are regularly evaluated by the rating agencies. The ratings of our asset-backed securities are based on a number of factors, including the quality of the underlying receivables and the credit enhancement structure of the trusts. One rating agency has indicated that it will adjust its methodology to give greater consideration to the effect the financial strength of Discover Bank, as originator of the credit card receivables and master servicer of the securitization trusts, may have on the performance of the underlying credit card asset-backed securities when determining the credit rating of the trust securities, which could negatively impact the ratings of our asset-backed securities. The rating agencies may require us to take certain credit enhancement actions to maintain the ratings of the securities issued out of our trusts, which we may not be able to complete. TALF currently requires a triple-A or equivalent rating from at least two nationally recognized rating agencies for an issuance to qualify as eligible collateral. Failure to maintain the credit ratings of our asset-backed securities could prevent us from issuing new securities from our securitization trusts that are eligible securities under TALF or otherwise, which may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cost of funds and overall financial condition.  We may not be successful in managing the investments in our liquidity reserve and investment performance may deteriorate due to market fluctuations, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition.  We must effectively manage the risks of the investments in our liquidity reserve. Investments in our liquidity reserve may be adversely affected by market fluctuations including changes in interest rates, prices, credit risk premiums and overall market liquidity. Also, investments backed by collateral could be adversely impacted by changes in the value of the underlying collateral. Certain markets have been experiencing disruptions in market liquidity, and the lack of a secondary market may adversely affect the valuation of certain of our investments. In addition, deteriorating economic conditions may cause certain of the obligors, counterparties and underlying collateral on our investments to incur losses of their own, thereby increasing our credit risk exposure to these investments. These risks could result in a decrease in the value of our investments, which could negatively impact our financial condition. For example, for the years ended November 30, 2009 and 2008, we recorded losses of $8.2 million and $49.1 million, respectively, on an investment in certain asset-backed commercial paper notes purchased in a prior period.  Changes in the level of interest rates could materially adversely affect our earnings.  Changes in interest rates cause our interest expense to increase or decrease, as certain of our debt instruments carry interest rates that fluctuate with market benchmarks. If we are unable to pass any higher cost of funds to our customers, the increase in interest expense could materially reduce earnings. Some of our consumer loan receivables bear interest at a fixed rate or do not earn interest, and we may not be able to increase the rate on those loans to mitigate any higher cost of funds. At the same time, our variable rate receivables, which are based on the prime market benchmark rate, may not change at the same rate as our floating rate borrowings or may be subject to a cap, subjecting us to basis point risk. The majority of our floating rate borrowings are asset securitizations, which are generally based on the 1-month LIBOR rate. For example, if the prime rate were to decrease without a decrease in the 1-month LIBOR rate, our earnings would be negatively impacted. In addition to asset securitizations, we also utilize deposits as a significant source of funds. Although our interest costs associated with existing deposits are fixed, new deposit issuances are subject to fluctuations in interest rates.  Interest rates may also adversely impact our delinquency and charge-off rates. Many consumer lending products bear interest rates that fluctuate with certain base lending rates published in the market, such as the prime rate and LIBOR. As a result, higher interest rates often lead to higher payment requirements by consumers under obligations to us and other lenders, which may reduce their ability to remain current on their obligations to us and thereby lead to loan delinquencies and additions to our loan loss provision, which could materially adversely affect our earnings.  We have a credit facility that could restrict our operations.  We have a multi-year unsecured committed credit facility that currently has $2.4 billion available and contains restrictions, covenants and events of default. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and    -29-    Table of Contents  Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Additional Funding Sources.” Although we currently have no outstanding balances due under the facility, the terms of the facility impose certain restrictions and future indebtedness may impose various additional restrictions and covenants on us (such as tangible net worth requirements) that could have adverse consequences, including: limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes.  We may be unable to increase or sustain Discover card usage, which could impair growth in, or lead to diminishing, average balances and total revenue.  A key element of our strategy is to increase the usage of the Discover card by our customers, including making it their primary card, and thereby increase our revenue from transaction and service fees and our receivables. However, our customers’ use and payment patterns may change because of social, legal and economic factors, and customers may decide to use debit cards instead of credit cards, not to increase card usage, or to pay the balances within the grace period to avoid finance charges. We face challenges from competing credit card products in our attempts to increase credit card usage by our existing customers. Our ability to increase card usage also is dependent on customer satisfaction, which may be adversely affected by factors outside of our control, including competitors’ actions and legislative/regulatory changes. The CARD Act limits pricing changes that may impact an account throughout its lifecycle, which may reduce the availability of lower price promotions to drive account usage and customer engagement. As part of our strategy to increase usage, we have been increasing the number of merchants who accept cards issued on the Discover Network. If we are unable to continue increasing merchant acceptance of our cards, our ability to grow usage of Discover cards may be hampered. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to increase or sustain credit card usage, which could impair growth in, or lead to diminishing, average balances and total revenue.  We may be unable to grow earnings if we fail to attract new customers, or if we attract customers lacking favorable spending and payment habits.  We seek to attract new customers who will use their Discover cards, meet their monthly payment obligations and maintain balances that generate interest and fee income for us. We are subject to substantial competition from other credit card issuers for these new customers. We may not have adequate financial resources to permit us to incur all of the marketing costs that may be necessary to maintain or grow our receivables or to attract new accounts. The spending and payment habits of these new customers may not be sufficient to make their accounts as profitable as we expect. In addition, our risk models may not accurately predict the credit risk for these new customers, which could result in unanticipated losses in future periods. To the extent that the spending and payment habits of new customers do not meet our expectations, our earnings and growth may be negatively affected.  Our transaction volume is concentrated among large merchants, and a reduction in the number of, or rates paid by, large merchants that accept cards on the Discover Network or PULSE Network could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Discover card transaction volume was concentrated among our top 100 merchants in 2009, with our largest merchant accounting for nearly 10% of that transaction volume. These merchants may pressure us to reduce our rates by continuing to participate in the Discover Network only on the condition that we change the terms of their economic participation. Loss of acceptance at our largest merchants would decrease transaction volume, negatively impact our brand, and could cause customer attrition. At the same time, we are subject to increasing pricing pressure from third-party issuers as a result of the continued consolidation in the banking industry, which results in fewer large issuers that, in turn, generally have a greater ability to negotiate higher interchange fees. In addition, some of our merchants, primarily our small and mid-size merchants, are not contractually committed to us for any period of time and may cease to participate in the Discover Network at any time on short notice.  Actual and perceived limitations on acceptance of credit cards issued on the Discover Network or debit cards issued on the PULSE Network could adversely affect the use of the Discover card by existing customers, the attractiveness of the Discover card to prospective new customers and interest of other financial institutions in issuing cards on the Discover Network or the PULSE Network. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining third-party issuers if we are unable to add and retain acquirers or merchants who accept cards issued on the Discover or PULSE Networks. As a result of these    -30-    Table of Contents  factors, a reduction in the number of, or rates paid by, our merchants could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  We may be unable to grow earnings if we are unable to increase or maintain the number of small and mid-size merchants that participate in the Discover Network.  In order to expand our merchant acceptance among small and mid-size merchants, we have been entering into agreements with and have been using third-party acquirers and processors to add merchants to the Discover Network and accept and process payments for these merchants on an integrated basis with Visa and MasterCard payments. This strategy could have unanticipated results, such as decreased revenues, higher expenses, degraded service and signage placement levels and retaliatory responses from competitors. There can be no assurance that the use of third-party acquirers and processors will continue to increase merchant acceptance among small or mid-size merchants, or that such third-party acquirers will continue to participate with us if more attractive opportunities arise. If we are unable to continue to increase or maintain small and mid-size merchant acceptance, our competitive position and our ability to grow earnings could be adversely affected.  Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the increasing focus of merchants on the fees charged by credit card and debit card networks.  Merchant acceptance and fees are critical to the success of both our card issuing and payment processing businesses. Merchants are concerned with the fees charged by credit card and debit card networks. They seek to negotiate better pricing or other financial incentives as a condition to continued participation in the Discover Network and PULSE Network. During the past few years, merchants and their trade groups have filed numerous lawsuits against Visa, MasterCard, American Express and their card issuing banks, claiming that their practices toward merchants, including interchange fees, violate federal antitrust laws. There can be no assurance that they will not in the future bring legal proceedings against other credit card and debit card issuers and networks, including us. Merchants also may promote forms of payment with lower fees, such as ACH-based payments, or seek to impose surcharges at the point of sale for use of credit or debit cards. Merchant groups have also promoted federal and state legislation that would restrict issuer practices or enhance the ability of merchants, individually or collectively, to negotiate more favorable fees. The heightened focus by merchants on the fees charged by credit card and debit card networks could lead to reduced merchant acceptance of Discover Network or PULSE Network cards or reduced fees, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with the network licensees that issue Diners Club cards and that maintain a merchant acceptance network, we may be unable to sustain and grow our international network business.  The success of Diners Club depends upon the cooperation and support of the network licensees that issue Diners Club cards and that maintain a merchant acceptance network including Citigroup, which currently owns and operates network licensees generating over 40% of the Diners Club network sales volume. As is the case for other card payment networks, Diners Club does not issue cards or determine the terms and conditions of cards issued by the network licensees. Each licensee issuer determines these.  Further, unlike the Discover Network, we have only a small number of direct merchant relationships in the Diners Club network. Instead, we rely on network licensees located outside the United States to help us sustain and grow our international business. As a result of a number of factors, including any difficulties in achieving card acceptance across our networks, network licensees may choose not to renew the license agreements with us when their terms expire. In addition, the increasingly competitive marketplace for cross-border issuance and acceptance of credit cards may result in lower participation fees for the Diners Club network. In addition, many of the merchants in the acceptance network, primarily small and mid-size merchants, may not be contractually committed to the network licensees for any period of time and may cease to participate in the Diners Club network at any time on short notice. If we are unable to continue our relationships with network licensees or if the network licensees are unable to continue their relationships with merchants, our ability to maintain or increase revenues and to remain competitive would be adversely affected.  Political, economic or other instability in a country or geographic region, or other unforeseen or catastrophic events, could adversely affect our international business activities and reduce our revenue.  Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, may have a negative effect on our business and infrastructure, including our information technology systems. Our Diners Club network, concentrated on primarily    -31-    Table of Contents  serving the global travel industry, could be adversely affected by international conditions that may result in a decline in consumer or business travel activity. Armed conflict, public health emergencies, natural disasters or terrorism may have a significant negative effect on travel activity and related revenue. Although a regionalized event or condition may primarily affect one of our network participants, it may also affect our overall network activity and our resulting revenue. Overall network transaction activity may decline as a result of concerns about safety or disease or may be limited because of economic conditions that result in spending on travel to decline. The impact of such events and other catastrophes on the overall economy may also adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.  Visa and MasterCard may impose additional restrictions on issuing banks, merchants or merchant acquirers that materially adversely affect our networks, or the Discover card issuing business.  Visa and MasterCard aggressively seek to protect their networks from competition and have used their rules and policies to do so. For example, in the past they enacted and enforced rules that prohibited their member banks from issuing cards on competing payment networks such as Discover. These rules were ultimately found to violate the antitrust laws. They have adversely affected our business in the past, and they may have lingering effects going forward. Visa and MasterCard also may enact new rules or enforce other rules in the future, including limiting the ability of issuing banks to use the PULSE Network, which may materially adversely affect our ability to compete. For example, MasterCard has issued a mandate requiring its signature debit issuing banks to also utilize MasterCard’s affiliated PIN debit network.  If fraudulent activity associated with our cards or our networks increases, our brands could suffer reputational damage, the use of our cards could decrease and our fraud losses could be materially adversely affected.  We are subject to the risk of fraudulent activity associated with merchants, customers and other third parties handling customer information. Credit and debit card fraud, identity theft and related crimes are prevalent and perpetrators are growing ever more sophisticated. Our resources and fraud prevention tools may be insufficient to accurately predict and prevent fraud. As we increase acceptance of the Discover card internationally, we may experience a higher fraud to sales ratio. Our financial condition, the level of our fraud charge-offs and other results of operations could be materially adversely affected if fraudulent activity were to significantly increase. In addition, significant increases in fraudulent activity could lead to regulatory intervention (such as mandatory card reissuance) and reputational and financial damage to our brands, which could negatively impact the use of our cards and networks and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, fraudulent activity may result in lower license fee revenue from our Diners Club licensees.  If our security systems, or those of merchants, merchant acquirers or other third parties containing information about customers, are compromised, we may be subject to liability and damage to our reputation.  Our security protection measures or the security protections of third parties participating in our networks may not be sufficient to protect the confidentiality of information relating to customers or transactions processed on our networks. Customer data also may be stored on systems of third-party service providers and merchants that may have inadequate security systems. Third-party carriers regularly transport customer data, and may lose sensitive customer information. Unauthorized access to our networks or any of our other information systems potentially could jeopardize the security of confidential information stored in our computer systems or transmitted by our customers or others. As we increase acceptance of the Discover card internationally, we may experience additional risks related to security systems. If our security systems or those of merchants, processors or other third-party service providers are compromised such that this confidential information is disclosed to unauthorized parties, we may be subject to liability. For example, in the event of a security breach, we may incur losses related to fraudulent use of cards issued by us as well as the operational costs associated with reissuing cards. The preventive measures we take to address these factors are costly, and may become more costly in the future. Moreover, these measures may not protect us from liability, which may not be adequately covered by insurance, or from damage to our reputation.  The financial services and payment services industries are rapidly evolving, and we may be unsuccessful in introducing new products or services on a large scale in response to this evolution.  The financial services and payment services industries experience constant and significant technological changes, such as continuing development of technologies in the areas of smart cards, radio frequency and proximity payment devices, electronic commerce and mobile commerce, among others. The effect of technological changes on our business is unpredictable.    -32-    Table of Contents We depend, in part, on third parties for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new services and technologies relating to the payments business will continue to appear in the market, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies that we currently use in our card products and services. As a result, our future success may be dependent on our ability to identify and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards and to provide payment solutions for our customers, merchants and financial institution customers.  Difficulties or delays in the development, production, testing and marketing of new products or services may be caused by a number of factors including, among other things, operational, capital and regulatory constraints. The occurrence of such difficulties may affect the success of our products or services, and developing unsuccessful products and services could result in financial losses, as well as decreased capital availability. In addition, the new products and services offered may not be attractive to our customers and merchant and financial institution customers. Also, success of a new product or service may depend upon our ability to deliver it on a large scale, which may require a significant capital investment that we may not be in a position to make. If we are unable to successfully introduce and maintain new income-generating products and services, it may impact our ability to compete effectively and materially adversely affect our business and earnings.  We rely on technology and on third parties to deliver services. If key technology platforms become obsolete, or if we face difficulties processing transactions or in managing our relationships with third-party service providers, our revenue or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  We have a large technology staff utilizing current technology. There is no assurance that we will be able to sustain our investment in new technology to avoid obsolescence of critical systems and applications. Further, our transaction authorization and settlement systems, and our clearing system for transactions between Diners Club network licensees, may encounter service interruptions due to system or software failure, fire, natural disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, terrorism or accident. Some of our transaction processing systems are operated at a single facility and could be subject to service interruptions in the event of failure. Our services could be disrupted by a natural disaster or other problem at any of our primary or back-up facilities or our other owned or leased facilities.  We also depend on third-party service providers for many aspects of the operation of our business. For example, we depend on third parties for the timely transmission of information across our data transportation network and for other telecommunications, processing, remittance and technology related services, including ancillary transaction processing services for the PULSE Network and authorization, clearing and settlement services for the Diners Club network. Regardless of whether as a result of natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism, termination of its relationship with us, or any other reason, if a service provider fails to provide the communications capacity or deliver services that we require or expect, the failure could interrupt our services and operations and hamper our ability to process customers’ transactions in a timely and accurate manner or to maintain thorough and accurate records of those transactions. Such a failure could adversely affect the perception of the reliability of our networks and services and the quality of our brands, and could materially adversely affect our transaction volumes, our revenues and/or our results of operations.  Merchant defaults may adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.  As an issuer and merchant acquirer in the United States on the Discover Network, and as a holder of certain merchant agreements internationally for the Diners Club network, we may be contingently liable for certain disputed credit card sales transactions that arise between customers and merchants. If a dispute is resolved in the customer’s favor, we will cause a credit or refund of the amount to be issued to the customer and charge back the transaction to the merchant or merchant acquirer. If we are unable to collect this amount from the merchant or merchant acquirer, we will bear the loss for the amount credited or refunded to the customer. Where the purchased product or service is not provided until some later date following the purchase, such as an airline ticket, the likelihood of potential liability increases. For the years ended November 30, 2009 and 2008, we had $5.8 million and $10.5 million, respectively, of losses related to merchant chargebacks.    -33-    Table of Contents Our success is dependent, in part, upon our executive officers and other key employees. If we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate key officers and employees, our business could be materially adversely affected.  Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain, recruit and motivate key officers and employees to manage our business. Our senior management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. Our senior management team is relatively small and we believe we are in a critical period of competition in the financial services and payments industry. The market for qualified individuals is highly competitive, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel or candidates to replace or succeed members of our senior management team or other key personnel.  As a participant in the U.S. Treasury Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to significant restrictions on how we may compensate our top five senior executive officers (“SEOs”) and our next 20 most highly compensated employees under the Interim Final Rule issued by the U.S. Treasury pursuant to the EESA. The EESA generally limits the amount of bonus or incentive compensation payable to our SEOs and our next 20 most highly compensated employees to one-third of the total amount of their annual compensation and limits the form of such payments to long-term restricted stock that does not fully vest during the period in which the senior preferred stock is held by the U.S. Treasury. In addition, the EESA could require the clawback of previously paid compensation to these employees. The EESA also restricts severance payments for our SEOs and our next five most highly compensated employees except for payments for services performed or benefits accrued. Several of the companies with which we compete for senior talent did not participate in, or are no longer participants in, the Capital Purchase Program and, therefore, are not subject to such compensation limitations.  We may be subject to further restrictions under any other future legislation or regulation limiting executive compensation. For example, in October 2009, the Federal Reserve issued proposed guidance on incentive compensation policies at banking organizations. These restrictions could negatively impact our ability to compete with other companies in recruiting and retaining key officers and employees. If we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate key personnel, our business could be materially adversely affected.  Damage to our reputation could damage our businesses.  Maintaining a positive reputation is critical to our attracting and retaining customers, investors and employees. Damage to our reputation can therefore cause significant harm to our businesses and prospects. Harm to our reputation can arise from numerous sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures, and the activities of customers and counterparties. Further, negative publicity regarding us, whether or not true, may also result in harm to our business prospects.  We may be unsuccessful in promoting and protecting our brands or protecting our other intellectual property, or third parties may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property rights.  The Discover, PULSE and Diners Club brands have substantial economic and goodwill value. Our success is dependent on our ability to promote and protect these brands and our other intellectual property. Our ability to attract and retain customers is highly dependent upon the external perception of our company and brands. Our brands are licensed for use to business partners and network participants, some of whom have contractual obligations to promote and develop our brands. The value of our brands and our overall business success may be adversely affected by actions of our business partners and network participants that diminish the perception of our brands.  We may not be able to successfully protect our brands and our other intellectual property. If others misappropriate, use or otherwise diminish the value of our intellectual property, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, third parties may allege that our marketing, processes or systems may infringe their intellectual property rights. Given the potential risks and uncertainties of such claims, our business could be adversely affected by having to pay significant monetary damages or licensing fees and we may have to alter our business practices.  Acquisitions or strategic investments that we pursue could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition.  We may consider or undertake strategic acquisitions of, or material investments in, businesses, products or technologies. If we do so, we may not be able to successfully finance or integrate any such businesses, products or    -34-    Table of Contents  technologies. In addition, the integration of any acquisition may divert management’s time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. We may allocate resources, such as time and money, on projects that do not increase our earnings. To the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash balances; similarly, if the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders.  We are subject to regulation by a number of different regulatory agencies, which have broad discretion to require us to alter our operations in ways that could adversely affect our business or subject us to penalties for noncompliance.  We must comply with an array of banking and consumer lending laws and regulations in all of the jurisdictions in which we operate. As a bank holding company, we are subject to oversight, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. Our subsidiary, Discover Bank, is subject to regulation and regular examinations by the FDIC and the Delaware Bank Commissioner. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, state banking regulators and the U.S. Department of Justice, as well as the SEC and New York Stock Exchange in our capacity as a public company. In addition, as our payments business has expanded globally through the acquisition of Diners Club, we are subject to government regulation in countries in which our networks operate or our cards are used, either directly or indirectly through regulation affecting Diners Club network licensees.  From time to time, these regulations and regulatory agencies have required us to alter certain of our operating practices, and may require us to do the same in the future. Our ability to introduce new products or introduce new pricing may be impaired or delayed as a result of regulatory review or failure to obtain required regulatory approvals. Various federal and state regulators have broad discretion to impose restrictions and requirements on our company, subsidiaries and operations. U.S. federal and state consumer protection laws and rules, and laws and rules of foreign jurisdictions where we conduct business limit the manner and terms on which we may offer and extend credit. We are subject to capital, funding and liquidity requirements prescribed by statutes, regulations and orders. We are also subject to the requirements of accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, the SEC, banking regulators and our outside auditors), who may change their interpretations on how standards should be applied, potentially materially impacting how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with laws, regulations and other requirements could lead to adverse consequences such as financial, structural, reputational and operational penalties, including receivership, litigation exposure and fines. In addition, efforts to abide by these laws and regulations may increase our costs of operations or limit our ability to engage in certain business activities, including affecting our ability to generate or collect receivables from customers.  Laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance and practices, or the application thereof, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Proposals for legislation further regulating matters affecting public companies are continually being introduced in the U.S. Congress and in state legislatures, including reforms related to health care, employment and particularly the financial services industry. Congress is considering extensive changes to the laws regulating financial services firms, including bills that address risks to the economy and the payments system through a variety of measures. Legislation approved in the House in December 2009, and a similar measure under consideration in the Senate, propose a new independent Consumer Financial Protection Agency (“CFPA”) that would regulate consumer financial services and products, including credit, savings and payment products. The President has made the enactment of financial reform legislation a priority, although there is significant opposition to several components, including the creation of a CFPA. Passage of the bills in their present form would have a material adverse impact on us, but prospects for approval of the legislation, and the content of a final bill, are unclear.  The agencies regulating the financial services industry also periodically adopt changes to their regulations and supervisory guidance and practices. In light of current conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economy, as well as a heightened regulatory and Congressional focus on consumer lending, regulators have increased their scrutiny of the financial services industry, the result of which has included new proposed regulations and regulatory guidance. For example, in October 2009, the Federal Reserve issued proposed guidance on incentive compensation policies at banking organizations. We are unable to predict the impact of this enhanced scrutiny or whether any of these proposals will be implemented or in what form. We are also unable to predict whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future.    -35-    Table of Contents In addition, regulation of the payments industry, including regulation applicable to us, merchant acquirers and our other business partners and customers, has expanded significantly in recent years. For instance, various U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and state legislatures are considering new legislation or regulations relating to restrictions regarding fees and interchange charged to merchants and acquirers, as well as additional charges for premium payment card transactions, and other restrictions related to identity theft, privacy, data security and marketing that could have a direct effect on us and our merchant and financial institution customers. In addition, the payments industry is the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may result in costly new compliance burdens being imposed on us and our customers and lead to increased costs and decreased payments volume and revenues. We, our Diners Club licensees and Diners Club customers are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in many countries in which our cards are used.  Failure to comply with laws and regulations could lead to adverse consequences such as financial, structural, reputational and operational penalties, including receivership, litigation exposure and fines. Legislative and regulatory changes could impact the profitability of our business activities, require us to change certain of our business practices, affect retention of our key employees, and expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). Significant changes in laws and regulations may have a more adverse effect on our results of operations than on the results of our larger, more diversified competitors. For additional recent legislative and regulatory developments that may affect our business, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Legislative and Regulatory Developments.”  Current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could inhibit the number of payment cards issued and increase our costs.  Regulatory pronouncements relating to consumer privacy, data use and security affect our business. In the United States, we are subject to the Federal Trade Commission’s and the banking regulators’ information safeguard rules under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The rules require that financial institutions (including us) develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution’s activities, and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. The United States has experienced a heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data security, including requiring consumer notification in the event of a data breach. In the United States, there are a number of bills pending in Congress and in individual states, and there have been numerous legislative hearings focusing on these issues. In addition, most states have enacted security breach legislation requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of certain types of security breaches, and several other states are considering similar legislation.  Regulation of privacy, data use and security may cause an increase in the costs to issue payment cards and/or may decrease the number of our cards that we or third parties issue. New regulations in these areas may also increase our costs to comply with such regulations, which could materially adversely affect our earnings. In addition, failure to comply with the privacy and data use and security laws and regulations to which we are subject, including by reason of inadvertent disclosure of confidential information, could result in fines, sanctions, penalties or other adverse consequences and loss of consumer confidence, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, overall business and reputation.  Litigation and regulatory actions could subject us to significant fines, penalties and/or requirements resulting in increased expenses.  Businesses in the credit card industry have historically been subject to significant legal actions, including class action lawsuits and patent claims. Many of these actions have included claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages. While we have historically relied on our arbitration clause in agreements with customers to limit our exposure to consumer class action litigation, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in enforcing our arbitration clause in the future. Legal challenges to the enforceability of these clauses have led most card issuers and may cause us to discontinue their use, and there are bills pending in Congress to directly or indirectly prohibit the use of pre-dispute arbitration clauses. Further, we are involved in pending legal actions challenging our arbitration clause. In addition, we may be involved in various actions or proceedings brought by governmental regulatory agencies in the event of noncompliance with laws or regulations, which could subject us to significant fines, penalties or other requirements resulting in increased expenses.    -36-    Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Spin-Off  Certain of our historical financial results are as a business segment of Morgan Stanley and therefore may not be representative of our results as a separate, stand-alone company.  Certain historical financial information we have included in this filing has been derived from Morgan Stanley’s consolidated financial statements and does not necessarily reflect what our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we operated as a separate, stand-alone company during the periods presented. For example, our funding costs increased after our separation from Morgan Stanley. In addition, certain historical costs and expenses reflected in our audited consolidated financial statements include an allocation for certain corporate functions historically provided by Morgan Stanley, including general corporate expenses, employee benefits and incentives. These allocations were based on what we and Morgan Stanley considered to be reasonable reflections of the historical utilization levels of these services required in support of our business. This historical information does not necessarily indicate what our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or costs and expenses would have been had we operated as a separate, stand-alone entity, nor is it indicative of what our results will be in the future.  Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  This annual report on Form 10-K and materials we have filed or will file with the SEC (as well as information included in our other written or oral statements) contain or will contain certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, our forward-looking statements. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates” and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “should,” “would” and “could” are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. You should not rely solely on the forward-looking statements and should consider all uncertainties and risks throughout this annual report on Form 10-K, including those described under “Risk Factors.” The statements are only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.  Possible events or factors that could cause results or performance to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include the following:        •    changes in economic variables, such as the availability of consumer credit, the housing market, energy costs, the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment and the levels of consumer confidence and consumer debt, and investor sentiment;        •    the impact of current, pending and future legislation, regulation and regulatory and legal actions, including new laws and rules limiting or modifying certain credit card practices, new laws and rules affecting securitizations, new laws and rules related to government programs to stabilize the financial markets and regulations related to becoming a bank holding company;        •    the restrictions on our operations resulting from financing transactions including participation in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program;        •    the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors;        •    our ability to successfully achieve card acceptance across our networks and maintain relationships with network participants;        •    our ability to manage our credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and strategic risk;        •    the availability and cost of funding and capital;        •    access to deposit, securitization, equity, debt and credit markets;        •    the impact of rating agency actions;        •    the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates, currency values, investments, other market fluctuations and other market indices;    -37-    Table of Contents     •    losses in our investment portfolio;        •    our ability to increase or sustain Discover card usage or attract new customers;        •    our ability to attract new merchants and maintain relationships with current merchants;        •    the effect of political, economic and market conditions, geopolitical events and unforeseen or catastrophic events;        •    fraudulent activities or material security breaches of key systems;        •    our ability to introduce new products or services;        •    our ability to sustain our investment in new technology and manage our relationships with third-party vendors;        •    our ability to collect amounts for disputed transactions from merchants and merchant acquirers;        •    our ability to attract and retain employees;        •    our ability to protect our reputation and our intellectual property;        •    difficulty financing or integrating new businesses, products or technologies;        •    new lawsuits, investigations or similar matters or unanticipated developments related to current matters; and        •    resolution of our dispute with Morgan Stanley.  The foregoing review of important factors should not be construed as exclusive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this annual report on Form 10-K. These factors expressly qualify all subsequent oral and written forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf. Except for any ongoing obligations to disclose material information as required under U.S. federal securities laws, we do not have any intention or obligation to update forward-looking statements after we distribute this annual report on Form 10-K, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.      Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments