Item 1A. Risk Factors.  Distribution  BD’s products are marketed in the United States and internationally through independent distribution channels and directly to end-users by BD and independent sales representatives. Order backlog is not material to BD’s business inasmuch as orders for BD products generally are received and filled on a current basis, except for items temporarily out of stock. BD’s worldwide sales are not generally seasonal, with the exception of certain medical devices in the BD Medical segment, and respiratory and flu diagnostic products in the BD Diagnostics segment, which relate to seasonal diseases such as influenza.    2    Table of Contents Raw Materials  BD purchases many different types of raw materials, including plastics, glass, metals, textiles, paper products, agricultural products, electronic and mechanical sub-assemblies and various biological, chemical and petrochemical products. BD seeks to ensure continuity of raw material supply by securing multiple options for sourcing. However, there are situations where raw materials are only available from one supplier, which are referred to as sole sourced. The use of sole sourced materials may be due to sourcing of proprietary and/or patented technology and processes that are intended to provide a unique market differentiation to our product. In other cases, while a raw material can be sourced from multiple manufacturers, only one supplier is qualified due to quality assurance, cost or other considerations. In order to provide alternate sources of raw materials, BD must complete a rigorous qualification process, which most often includes completion of regulatory registration and approval. If clinical trials are not required, this qualification process can take 3-18 months depending on the criticality of the change. When clinical trials are required, this process may lengthen the qualification phase from one to three years. BD continuously assesses its sole sourced raw materials and maintains business continuity plans with our suppliers. BD’s continuity plans may include securing secondary supply with alternate suppliers, qualification of alternate manufacturing facilities, maintaining contingency stock, internal development of supply and establishment of technology escrow accounts. While BD works closely with its suppliers, there may nonetheless be events that cause supply interruption, reduction or termination that adversely impacts BD’s ability to manufacture and sell certain products.  Research and Development  BD conducts its research and development (“R&D”) activities at its operating units and at BD Technologies in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. The majority of BD’s R&D activities are conducted in the United States. Outside the United States, BD’s businesses conduct R&D activities in Canada, China, France, India and Singapore. BD also collaborates with certain universities, medical centers and other entities on R&D programs, and retains individual consultants to support its efforts in specialized fields. BD spent approximately $550 million, $494 million, and $472 million on research and development during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.  Intellectual Property and Licenses  BD owns significant intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries. BD is also licensed under domestic and foreign patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks owned by others. In the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are of material importance to BD’s business. BD believes, however, that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license is material in relation to BD’s business as a whole, or to any business segment.  Competition  BD operates in the increasingly complex and challenging medical technology marketplace. Technological advances and scientific discoveries have accelerated the pace of change in medical technology, the regulatory environment of medical products is becoming more complex and vigorous, and economic conditions have resulted in a challenging market. Companies of varying sizes compete in the global medical technology field. Some are more specialized than BD with respect to particular markets, and some have greater financial resources than BD. New companies have entered the field, particularly in the areas of molecular diagnostics, safety-engineered devices and in the life sciences, and established companies have diversified their business activities into the medical technology area. Other firms engaged in the distribution of medical technology products have become manufacturers of medical devices and instruments as well. Acquisitions and collaborations by and among companies seeking a competitive advantage also affect the competitive environment. In addition, the entry into the market of manufacturers located in China and other low-cost manufacturing locations are creating increased pricing pressures, particularly in developing markets. Some competitors have also established manufacturing sites or have contracted with suppliers located in these countries as a means to lower their costs.    3    Table of Contents BD competes in this evolving marketplace on the basis of many factors, including price, quality, innovation, service, reputation, distribution and promotion. The impact of these factors on BD’s competitive position varies among BD’s various product offerings. In order to remain competitive in the industries in which it operates, BD continues to make investments in research and development, quality management, quality improvement, product innovation and productivity improvement in support of its core strategy — to increase revenue growth by focusing on products that deliver greater benefits to patients, healthcare workers and researchers.  Third-Party Reimbursement  Most of our customers and healthcare providers typically rely on third-party payers, including government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the procedures, products and services they provide. Our devices are subject to worldwide regulations regarding reimbursement developed by government agencies, including the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) in the United States; the National Health Service in the United Kingdom; the Joint Federal Committee in Germany; the Commission d’Evaluation des Produits et prestations in France; the Ministry for Health, Labor and Welfare in Japan; the Ministry of Health and the National Development and Reform Commission in China; among many others. In addition, our devices are also subject to reimbursement policies issued by private insurance companies and managed care organizations. The manner and level of reimbursement in any given case may depend on the site of care, the procedure(s) performed, the final patient diagnosis, the device(s) and/or drug(s) utilized, the available budget, or a combination of these factors, and coverage and payment levels are determined at each payer’s discretion. The coverage policies and reimbursement levels of these third-party payers may impact the decisions of healthcare providers and facilities regarding which medical products they purchase and the prices they are willing to pay for those products. Thus, changes in reimbursement levels or methods may either positively or negatively impact sales of BD products.  While BD is actively engaged in promoting the value propositions of its products for payer, provider, and patient stakeholders, and it employs various efforts and resources to positively impact coverage, coding and payment processes in this regard, it has no direct control over payer decision-making with respect to coverage and payment levels for BD products. Many third-party payers are seeking to control the growth of healthcare expenditures and have developed specific payment and delivery mechanisms to support these cost control efforts. These mechanisms include payment reductions, pay for performance measures, quality-based performance payments, restrictive coverage policies, bidding and tender mechanics, studies to compare the effectiveness of therapies and use of technology assessments. These changes have created an increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective and quality-driven healthcare. As government programs, including CMS and many other national healthcare programs, seek to expand healthcare coverage for their citizens, they have at the same time sought to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures, products or services.  As BD’s product offerings are diverse across many healthcare settings, they are affected to varying degrees by the many payment systems. Therefore, individual countries, product lines or product classes may be impacted by changes to these systems. Notably the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“PPACA”) provides for numerous, substantive changes to U.S. healthcare payment systems. The law focuses on Medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs. The Medicare provisions include value-based payment programs, increased funding of comparative effectiveness research, reduced hospital payments for avoidable readmissions and healthcare acquired conditions and infections. New programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies that promote care coordination such as Accountable Care Organizations and bundled physician and hospital payments have been established and will continue to be implemented during the next several years that could impact the value and payment for our products. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a further discussion.  Regulation  BD’s medical technology products and operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and various other federal and state agencies, as well as by foreign governmental agencies. These agencies enforce laws and regulations that govern the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing and distribution, and market surveillance of BD’s medical products. The scope of the activities of these agencies, particularly in the Europe, Japan, and Asia Pacific regions in which BD operates, has been increasing.    4    Table of Contents BD actively maintains FDA/ISO Quality Systems that establish standards for its product design, manufacturing, and distribution processes. Prior to marketing or selling most of its products, BD must secure approval from the FDA and counterpart non-U.S. regulatory agencies. Following the introduction of a product, these agencies engage in periodic reviews of BD’s quality systems, as well as product performance and advertising and promotional materials. These regulatory controls, as well as any changes in FDA policies, can affect the time and cost associated with the development, introduction and continued availability of new products. Where possible, BD anticipates these factors in its product development and planning processes. These agencies possess the authority to take various administrative and legal actions against BD, such as product recalls, product seizures and other civil and criminal sanctions. BD also undertakes voluntary compliance actions such as voluntary recalls.  BD also is subject to various federal and state laws, and laws outside the United States, concerning healthcare fraud and abuse (including false claims laws and anti-kickback laws), global anti-corruption, transportation, safety and health, and customs and exports. Many of the agencies enforcing these laws have increased their enforcement activities with respect to medical device manufacturers in recent years. This appears to be part of a general trend toward increased regulation and enforcement activity within and outside the United States.  In addition, as part of PPACA, the federal government has enacted the Sunshine Act provisions. Beginning in 2013, we are required to track, and in 2014 publicly report, gifts and payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and failure to comply could result in a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions.  BD believes it is in compliance in all material respects with applicable law and the regulations promulgated by the applicable agencies (including, without limitation, environmental laws and regulations), and that such compliance has not had, and will not have, a material adverse effect on our operations or results. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings.  Employees  As of September 30, 2014, BD had 30,619 employees, of whom 11,965 were employed in the U.S. (including Puerto Rico). BD believes that its employee relations are satisfactory.  Available Information  BD maintains a website at www.bd.com. BD also makes available its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and its Current Reports on Form 8-K (and amendments to those reports) as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These filings may be obtained and printed free of charge at www.bd.com/investors. In addition, the written charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Benefits Committee, the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, the Executive Committee and the Science, Marketing, Innovation and Technology Committee of the Board of Directors, BD’s Corporate Governance Principles and its Code of Conduct, are available at BD’s website at www.bd.com/investors/corporate_governance/. Printed copies of these materials, this 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and BD’s reports and statements filed with, or furnished to, the SEC, may be obtained, without charge, by contacting the Corporate Secretary, BD, 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-1880, telephone 201-847-6800. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.  BD also routinely posts important information for investors on its website at www.bd.com/investors. BD may use this website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD adopted by the SEC. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of BD’s website noted above, in addition to following BD’s press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. Our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto shall not be deemed to be incorporated into this Annual Report.    5    Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements  BD and its representatives may from time-to-time make certain forward-looking statements in publicly-released materials, both written and oral, including statements contained in filings with the SEC and in its reports to shareholders. Additional information regarding BD’s forward-looking statements is contained in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.      Item 1A. Risk Factors.  An investment in BD involves a variety of risks and uncertainties. The following describes some of the significant risks that could adversely affect BD’s business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows.  Global economic conditions could continue to adversely affect our operations.  In recent years, we have been faced with very challenging global economic conditions, particularly in the U.S. and Western Europe. Deterioration in the global economic environment may result in decreased demand for our products and services, increased competition, downward pressure on the prices for our products, longer sales cycles, and slower adoption of new technologies. A weakening of macroeconomic conditions may also adversely affect our suppliers, which could result in interruptions in supply in the future. We have also experienced delays in collecting receivables in certain countries in Western Europe, and we may experience similar delays in these and other countries or regions experiencing liquidity problems. While we have not experienced a slowing of growth in emerging markets as other companies in our industry have reported, there can be no assurance that a deterioration of economic conditions in these markets will not adversely affect our future results.  We are subject to foreign currency exchange risk.  About 60% of our fiscal year 2014 revenues were derived from international operations, and we anticipate that a significant portion of our sales will continue to come from outside the U.S. in the future. The revenues we report with respect to our operations outside the United States may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A discussion of the financial impact of exchange rate fluctuations and the ways and extent to which we may attempt to address any impact is contained in Item. 7, Management’s Discussion of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Any hedging activities we engage in may only offset a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange rates or the degree to which we can address these risks.  Changes in reimbursement practices of third-party payers could affect the demand for our products and the prices at which they are sold.  Our sales depend, in part, on the extent to which healthcare providers and facilities are reimbursed by government authorities, private insurers and other third-party payers for the costs of our products. The coverage policies and reimbursement levels of third-party payers, which can vary among public and private sources and by country, may affect which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay for those products in a particular jurisdiction. Reimbursement rates can also affect the acceptance rate of new technologies and products. Legislative or administrative reforms to reimbursement systems in the United States or abroad, or changes in reimbursement rates by private payers, could significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures using BD products or result in denial of reimbursement for those products, which would adversely affect customer demand or the price customers are willing to pay for such products. See “Third-Party Reimbursement” under Item 1. Business.  Federal healthcare reform may adversely affect our results of operations.  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “PPACA”) was enacted in March 2010. Under the PPACA, beginning in 2013, medical device manufacturers, such as BD, pay a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of certain medical devices. We cannot predict with any certainty what other impact the PPACA may have on our business. The PPACA, among other things, reduces Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals, clinical    6    Table of Contents  laboratories and pharmaceutical companies, and could otherwise reduce the volume of medical procedures. These factors, in turn, could result in reduced demand for our products and increased downward pricing pressure. It is also possible that the PPACA will result in lower reimbursement rates for our products. Other provisions in the law may significantly change the practice of health care and could adversely affect aspects of our business. While the PPACA is intended to expand health insurance coverage to uninsured persons in the United States, the overall increase in access to healthcare has not had any discernable impact on sales of BD’s products.  Efforts to reduce the U.S. federal deficit could adversely affect our results of operations.  The Budget Control Act of 2011 implements automatic spending cuts (known as sequestration) designed to reduce government spending by over $1 trillion over a ten year period, beginning in 2013, and will remain in effect in the absence of further legislative action. Half of the automatic reductions will come from non-defense discretionary spending and domestic entitlement programs, including reductions in payments to Medicare providers. Government research funding has also been reduced as a result of sequestration. Such reductions in government healthcare spending or research funding could result in reduced demand for our products or additional pricing pressure. Further, there is ongoing uncertainty regarding the federal budget and federal spending levels, including the possible impacts of a failure to increase the “debt ceiling.” Any U.S. government default on its debt could have broad macroeconomic effects that could, among other things, raise our borrowing costs. Any future shutdown of the federal government or failure to enact annual appropriations could also have a material adverse impact on our business.  Consolidation in the healthcare industry could adversely affect BD’s future revenues and operating income.  The medical technology industry has experienced a significant amount of consolidation. As a result of this consolidation, competition to provide goods and services to customers has increased. In addition, group purchasing organizations and integrated health delivery networks have served to concentrate purchasing decisions for some customers, which has also placed pricing pressure on medical device suppliers. Further consolidation in the industry could exert additional pressure on the prices of our products.  Cost volatility could adversely affect our operations.  Our results of operations could be negatively impacted by volatility in the cost of raw materials, components, freight and energy. In particular, BD purchases supplies of resins, which are oil-based components used in the manufacture of certain products. Any significant increases in resin costs could adversely impact future operating results. Increases in the price of oil can also increase BD’s costs for packaging and transportation. New laws or regulations adopted in response to climate change could also increase energy costs and the costs of certain raw materials and components. We may not be able to offset increases in these costs through other cost reductions.  Breaches of our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our operations.  We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations. Our information technology systems have been subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, and cyber- or phishing-attacks, and we expect to be subject to similar attacks in the future. We also store certain information with third parties that could be subject to these types of attacks. These attacks could result in our intellectual property and other confidential information being lost or stolen, disruption of our operations, and other negative consequences, such as increased costs for security measures or remediation costs, and diversion of management attention. While we will continue to implement additional protective measures to reduce the risk of and detect future cyber incidents, cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated and frequent, and the techniques used in such attacks change rapidly. There can be no assurances that our protective measures will prevent future attacks that could have a significant impact on our business.    7    Table of Contents BD’s future growth is dependent in part upon the development of new products, and there can be no assurance that such products will be developed.  A significant element of our strategy is to increase revenue growth by focusing on products that deliver greater benefits to patients, healthcare workers and researchers. The development of these products requires significant investment in research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals. The results of our product development efforts may be affected by a number of factors, including BD’s ability to anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new products, complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals and reimbursement in the United States and abroad, manufacture products in a cost-effective manner, obtain appropriate intellectual property protection for our products, and gain and maintain market approval of our products. In addition, patents attained by others can preclude or delay our commercialization of a product. There can be no assurance that any products now in development or that we may seek to develop in the future will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval or gain market acceptance.  We cannot guarantee that any of BD’s strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances will be successful.  As part of our strategy to increase revenue growth, we seek to supplement our internal growth through strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. Such transactions are inherently risky. The success of any acquisition, investment or alliance may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity or to successfully integrate any business we may acquire into our existing business. There can be no assurance that any past or future transaction will be successful.  For additional information regarding risks relating to our pending acquisition of CareFusion, see the risk factors below under the heading “Risks relating to our pending acquisition of CareFusion”.  The medical technology industry is very competitive.  The medical technology industry is subject to rapid technological change. In addition, we face changing customer preferences and requirements, including increased customer demand for more environmentally-friendly products. We face significant competition across our product lines and in each market in which our products are sold on the basis of product features, clinical outcomes, price, services and other factors. We face this competition from a wide range of companies. These include large medical device companies with multiple product lines, some of which may have greater financial and marketing resources than we do, and firms that are more specialized than we are with respect to particular markets or product lines. Other firms engaged in the distribution of medical technology products have become manufacturers of medical devices and instruments as well. In some instances, competitors, including pharmaceutical companies, also offer, or are attempting to develop, alternative therapies for disease states that may be delivered without a medical device. The development of new or improved products, processes or technologies by other companies (such as needle-free injection technology) may render our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. The entry into the market of manufacturers located in China and other low-cost manufacturing locations has also created pricing pressure, particularly in developing markets. Some competitors have also established manufacturing sites or have contracted with suppliers located in these countries as a means to lower their costs.  The international operations of BD’s business may subject BD to certain business risks.  The majority of our sales come from our operations outside the United States, and we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in foreign markets, especially in emerging markets. BD’s foreign operations subject BD to certain risks, including the effects of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange (discussed above), the effects of local economic conditions, foreign regulatory requirements or changes in such requirements, local product preferences and product requirements, difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing foreign operations, differing labor regulations, changes in tax laws, potential political instability, trade barriers, weakening or loss of the protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, trade protection and restrictions on the transfer of capital across borders. The success of our operations outside the United States depends, in part, on our ability to acquire or form and maintain alliances with local companies and make necessary infrastructure enhancements to, among other things, our production facilities and sales and distribution networks.    8    Table of Contents In addition, our international operations are governed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-corruption laws. Global enforcement of anti-corruption laws has increased substantially in recent years, with more enforcement proceedings by U.S. and foreign governmental agencies and the imposition of significant fines and penalties. While we have implemented policies and procedures to enhance compliance with these laws, our international operations create the risk that there may be unauthorized payments or offers of payments by employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors. Any alleged or actual violations of these laws may subject us to government scrutiny, severe criminal or civil sanctions and other liabilities, and negatively affect our reputation.  Under the U.S. tax code, we may also be subject to additional taxation to the extent we repatriate earnings from our foreign operations to the U.S. In the event we require more capital in the United States than is generated by our U.S. operations to fund acquisitions or other activities and elect to repatriate earnings from foreign jurisdictions, our effective tax rate may be higher as a result.  Reductions in customers’ research budgets or government funding may adversely affect our BD Biosciences business.  Our BD Biosciences business sells products to researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government laboratories and private foundations. Research and development spending of our customers can fluctuate based on spending priorities and general economic conditions. A number of these customers are also dependent for their funding upon grants from U.S. government agencies, such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (“NIH”) and agencies in other countries. The level of government funding of research and development is unpredictable. There have been instances where NIH grants have been frozen or otherwise unavailable for extended periods. The availability of governmental research funding may also continue to be adversely affected by economic conditions and, as described above, governmental spending reductions. Any reduction or delay in governmental funding could cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products.  A reduction or interruption in the supply of certain raw materials and components would adversely affect BD’s manufacturing operations and related product sales.  BD purchases many different types of raw materials and components. Certain raw materials (primarily related to the BD Biosciences business) and components are not available from multiple sources. In addition, for quality assurance, cost-effectiveness and other reasons, BD elects to purchase certain raw materials and components from sole suppliers. The supply of these materials can be disrupted for a number of reasons, including economic conditions as described above. While we work with suppliers to ensure continuity of supply, no assurance can be given that these efforts will be successful. In addition, due to regulatory requirements relating to the qualification of suppliers, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement sources on a timely basis or without excessive cost. The termination, reduction or interruption in supply of these sole-sourced raw materials and components could adversely impact our ability to manufacture and sell certain of our products.  Interruption of our manufacturing operations could adversely affect BD’s future revenues and operating income.  We have manufacturing sites all over the world. In some instances, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or more of our plants. Weather, natural disasters (including pandemics), terrorism, political change, failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, equipment malfunction, environmental factors or damage to one or more of our facilities could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products, resulting in lost revenues and damage to our relationships with customers.  BD is subject to lawsuits.  BD is or has been a defendant in a number of lawsuits, including purported class action lawsuits for, among other things, alleged antitrust violations and suits alleging patent infringement, and could be subject to additional lawsuits in the future. A more detailed description of these lawsuits is contained in Item 3. Legal Proceedings.    9    Table of Contents  Given the uncertain nature of litigation generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of the litigation to which we are a party. In view of these uncertainties, we could incur charges in excess of any currently established accruals and, to the extent available, excess liability insurance. Any such future charges, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on BD’s results of operations and cash flows.  For additional information regarding litigation relating to our pending acquisition of CareFusion, see the risk factors below under the heading “Risks relating to our pending acquisition of CareFusion”.  BD is subject to extensive regulation.  BD’s operations are global and are affected by various state, federal and international healthcare, environmental, antitrust, anti-corruption, fraud and abuse (including anti-kickback and false claims laws) and employment laws. Violations of these laws can result in criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines and, in some cases, exclusion from participation in health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. BD is also subject to extensive regulation by the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, by comparable agencies in foreign countries, and by other regulatory agencies and governing bodies. Most of BD’s products must receive clearance or approval from the FDA or counterpart regulatory agencies in other countries before they can be marketed or sold. The process for obtaining marketing approval or clearance may take a significant period of time and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and these have been increasing due to increased requirements from the FDA for supporting data for submissions. The process may also require changes to our products or result in limitations on the indicated uses of the products. Governmental agencies may also impose new requirements regarding registration, labeling or prohibited materials that may require us to modify or re-register products already on the market or otherwise impact our ability to market our products in those countries. Once clearance or approval has been obtained for a product, there is an obligation to ensure that all applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements continue to be met.  Following the introduction of a product, these agencies also periodically review our manufacturing processes and product performance. Our failure to comply with the applicable good manufacturing practices, adverse event reporting, clinical trial and other requirements of these agencies could delay or prevent the production, marketing or sale of our products and result in fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances, closure of manufacturing sites, seizures or recalls of products and damage to our reputation. Recent changes in enforcement practice by the FDA and other agencies have resulted in increased enforcement activity, which increases the compliance risk for BD and other companies in our industry.  Product defects could adversely affect the results of our operations.  The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices involve certain inherent risks. Manufacturing or design defects, unapproved use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of our products can lead to injury or other adverse events. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products (either voluntary or required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries), and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. A recall could result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products. Personal injuries relating to the use of our products can also result in significant product liability claims being brought against us. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in regulatory approval of new products.  We may experience difficulties fully implementing our enterprise resource planning system.  We have been engaged in a project to upgrade our enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system. Our ERP system is critical to our ability to accurately maintain books and records, record transactions, provide important information to our management and prepare our financial statements. The implementation of the new ERP system has required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant financial and human resources. In addition, we may not be able to successfully complete the full implementation of the ERP system without experiencing difficulties. Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of the new    10    Table of Contents  ERP system could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our business.  Our operations are dependent in part on patents and other intellectual property assets.  Many of BD’s businesses rely on patent, trademark and other intellectual property assets. These intellectual property assets, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business. BD can lose the protection afforded by these intellectual property assets through patent expirations, legal challenges or governmental action. Patents attained by competitors, particularly as patents on our products expire, may also adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, competitors may claim that BD products infringe upon their intellectual property, which could result in significant legal fees damage awards, royalties and injunctions against future sales of our products. The loss of a significant portion of our portfolio of intellectual property assets may have an adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition or cash flows.  Natural disasters, war and other events could adversely affect BD’s future revenues and operating income.  Natural disasters (including pandemics), war, terrorism, labor disruptions and international conflicts, and actions taken by the United States and other governments or by our customers or suppliers in response to such events, could cause significant economic disruption and political and social instability in the United States and in areas outside of the United States in which we operate. These events could result in decreased demand for our products, adversely affect our manufacturing and distribution capabilities, or increase the costs for or cause interruptions in the supply of materials from our suppliers.  We need to attract and retain key employees to be competitive.  Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to attract and retain executives and other key employees, including people in technical, marketing, sales and research positions. Competition for experienced employees, particularly for persons with specialized skills, can be intense. BD’s ability to recruit such talent will depend on a number of factors, including compensation and benefits, work location and work environment. If we cannot effectively recruit and retain qualified executives and employees, our business could be adversely affected.  Risks relating to our pending acquisition of CareFusion  Completion of the merger is subject to conditions and if these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the merger will not be completed.  The obligations of BD and CareFusion to complete the merger are subject to satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions including adoption of the merger by the CareFusion stockholders, the adoption or deemed adoption of approvals of the merger by the European Commission, the effectiveness of our registration statement on Form S-4 filed with the SEC with respect to our common stock to be issued in the merger, approval of the listing on the NYSE of the BD common stock to be issued in the merger, and the absence of an injunction prohibiting the merger. Each party’s obligation to complete the merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver (to the extent permitted under applicable law) of certain other conditions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the other party under the merger agreement (subject to the materiality standards set forth in the merger agreement), the performance by the other party of its respective obligations under the merger agreement in all material respects and delivery of officer certificates by the other party certifying satisfaction of the two preceding conditions.  The failure to satisfy all of the required conditions could delay the completion of the merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. Any delay in completing the merger could cause BD not to realize some or all of the benefits that BD expects to achieve if the merger is successfully completed within its expected timeframe. There can be no assurance that the conditions to the closing of the merger will be satisfied or waived, or that the merger will be completed. The market price for our stock may reflect an assumption that the pending merger will occur, and the failure to complete the merger could result in a decline in our stock price.    11    Table of Contents In order to complete the merger, BD and CareFusion must make certain governmental filings and obtain certain governmental authorizations, and if such filings and authorizations are not made or granted or are granted with conditions, completion of the merger may be jeopardized or the anticipated benefits of the merger could be reduced.  Although BD and CareFusion have agreed in the merger agreement to use reasonable best efforts, subject to certain limitations, to make certain governmental filings, obtain notice of the adoption or deemed adoption of approvals of the merger by the European Commission, there can be no assurance that the European Commission will approve of the merger. As a condition to adoption of approvals of the merger, governmental authorities may impose requirements, limitations or costs, or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of BD’s business after completion of the merger.  Under the terms of the merger agreement, subject to certain exceptions, BD and its subsidiaries are required to accept certain conditions and take certain actions imposed by governmental authorities that would apply to, or affect, the businesses, assets or properties of it, its subsidiaries or CareFusion and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions and that such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of (i) delaying completion of the merger, (ii) imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger, or (iii) otherwise adversely affecting BD’s businesses and results of operations after completion of the merger. In addition, we can provide no assurance that these conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the merger.  Combining the two companies may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized.  CareFusion and BD have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. The success of the merger, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend, in part, on BD’s ability to successfully combine and integrate our business with the business of CareFusion. It is possible that the pendency of the merger and/or the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, higher than expected costs, diversion of management attention of both CareFusion and BD, the disruption of either company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the combined company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger. As part of the integration process, we may also attempt to divest certain assets of the combined company, which may not be possible on favorable terms, or at all, or, if successful, may change the profile of the combined company. If BD experiences difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on (i) each of BD and CareFusion during this transition period and (ii) the combined company for an undetermined period after completion of the merger. In addition, the actual cost savings of the merger could be less than anticipated.  In connection with the merger, BD will incur significant additional indebtedness and will assume certain of CareFusion’s outstanding indebtedness, which could adversely affect BD, including by decreasing BD’s business flexibility, and will increase its interest expense.  The total debt of BD as of September 30, 2014 was approximately $4 billion. BD’s pro forma indebtedness as of September 30, 2014, after giving effect to the merger and the anticipated incurrence and extinguishment of indebtedness in connection therewith, will be as much as $14 billion. BD will have substantially increased indebtedness following completion of the merger in comparison to that of BD on a recent historical basis, which could have the effect, among other things, of reducing BD’s flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and increasing BD’s interest expense. BD will also incur various costs and expenses associated with the financing. The amount of cash required to pay interest on BD’s increased indebtedness levels following completion of the merger, and thus the demands on BD’s cash resources, will be greater than the amount of cash flows required to service the indebtedness of BD prior to the transaction. The increased levels of indebtedness following completion of the merger could also reduce funds available for working capital, capital    12    Table of Contents  expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes and may create competitive disadvantages for BD relative to other companies with lower debt levels. If BD does not achieve the expected benefits and cost savings from the merger, or if the financial performance of the combined company does not meet current expectations, then BD’s ability to service its indebtedness may be adversely impacted.  Certain of the indebtedness to be incurred in connection with the merger may bear interest at variable interest rates. If interest rates increase, variable rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect BD’s cash flows.  In addition, BD’s credit ratings affect the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, BD’s cost of capital. BD’s ratings reflect each rating organization’s opinion of BD’s financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet BD’s debt obligations. In connection with the debt financing for the merger, it is anticipated that BD will seek ratings of its indebtedness from one or more nationally recognized statistical organizations. There can be no assurance that BD will achieve a particular rating or maintain a particular rating in the future.  In the event that the ratings of CareFusion’s existing notes are reduced beyond certain thresholds within certain time periods prior to or following the consummation of the merger, CareFusion could be required to offer to repurchase such notes at 101% of the principal amount of such notes plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the repurchase date.  Moreover, BD may be required to raise substantial additional financing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements. BD’s ability to arrange additional financing or refinancing will depend on, among other factors, BD’s financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond BD’s control. There can be no assurance that BD will be able to obtain additional financing or refinancing on terms acceptable to BD or at all.  The agreements that will govern the indebtedness to be incurred or assumed in connection with the merger contain various covenants that impose restrictions on BD and certain of its subsidiaries that may affect their ability to operate their businesses.  The agreements that will govern the indebtedness to be incurred or assumed in connection with the merger contain various affirmative and negative covenants that may, subject to certain significant exceptions, restrict the ability of BD and certain of its subsidiaries to, among other things, have liens on their property, transact business with affiliates and/or merge or consolidate with any other person or sell or convey certain of our assets to any one person. In addition, some of the agreements that govern the debt financing may contain financial covenants that will require BD to maintain certain financial ratios. The ability of BD and its subsidiaries to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond their control. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could accelerate BD’s repayment obligations.  The merger will be dilutive to BD’s earnings per share, measured on a GAAP basis.  Because shares of BD common stock will be issued in the merger, the merger will be dilutive to BD earnings per share, measured on a GAAP basis. Future events and conditions could increase the dilution that is currently projected, including adverse changes in market conditions, additional transaction and integration related costs and other factors such as the failure to realize some or all of the benefits anticipated in the merger. Any dilution of, or delay of any accretion to, BD’s earnings per share could cause the price of shares of BD common stock to decline or grow at a reduced rate.  The merger will involve substantial costs.  CareFusion and BD have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, a number of non-recurring costs associated with the merger and combining the operations of the two companies. The substantial majority of non- recurring expenses will be comprised of transaction and regulatory costs related to the merger.  BD also will incur transaction fees and costs related to formulating and implementing integration plans, including facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs. BD continues to assess the magnitude of these costs, and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the merger and the integration of    13    Table of Contents  the two companies’ businesses. Although BD expects that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow BD to offset integration-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. See the risk factor entitled “—Combining the two companies may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized” above.  Sales of shares of BD common stock after the completion of the transaction may cause the market price of BD common stock to fall.  Based on the number of outstanding shares of CareFusion common stock as of October 3, 2014, BD would issue approximately 16 million shares of BD common stock in connection with the transaction. Many CareFusion stockholders may decide not to hold the shares of BD common stock they will receive in the merger. Other CareFusion stockholders, such as funds with limitations on their permitted holdings of stock in individual issuers, may be required to sell the shares of BD common stock that they receive in the merger. Such sales of BD common stock could have the effect of depressing the market price for BD common stock and may take place promptly following the merger.  Lawsuits have been filed, and other lawsuits may be filed, against CareFusion, its directors, BD and Merger Corp challenging the merger, and an adverse ruling in such lawsuits may prevent the merger from becoming effective or from becoming effective within the expected timeframe.  CareFusion, its directors, and BD are named as defendants in eight putative class action lawsuits brought by purported CareFusion stockholders challenging the proposed merger and seeking, among other things, equitable relief to enjoin consummation of the merger, rescission of the merger and/or rescissory damages. One of the conditions to the completion of the merger is that no injunction by any court or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction will be in effect that prohibits or makes illegal the consummation of the merger. As such, if any of the plaintiffs are successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting the consummation of the merger, then such injunction may prevent the merger from becoming effective or from becoming effective within the expected timeframe.  Uncertainties associated with the merger may cause a loss of management personnel and other key employees of CareFusion or BD, which could adversely affect the future business and operations of the combined company following the merger.  CareFusion and BD are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of their officers and other key employees to execute their business plans. The combined company’s success after the merger will depend in part upon its ability to retain key management personnel and other key employees of CareFusion and BD. Current and prospective employees of CareFusion and BD may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company following the merger, which may materially adversely affect the ability of each of CareFusion and BD to attract and retain key personnel during the pendency of the merger. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the combined company will be able to retain key management personnel and other key employees of CareFusion and BD.      Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.