Item 1A.   Risk Factors       In addition to the other information set forth in this Report, you should carefully consider the risks discussed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K under the headings "Item 1. Business – Competition, Markets and Regulations", "Item 1A. Risk Factors" and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk", which risks could materially affect the Company's business, financial condition or future results. Except as stated below, there has been no material change in the Company's risk factors from those described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K.   The Company is subject to regulations that may cause it to incur substantial costs and affect its ability to grow.   As previously disclosed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, including in "Item 1. Business — Competition, Markets and Regulations," the Company's business is regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. For example, the Company’s properties located in Colorado are subject to the authority of the Colorado Oil & Gas Conservation Commission (the "COGCC"). The COGCC recently passed certain rules that will increase the length of time needed to obtain certain permits and will increase the Company's costs of permitting and environmental compliance. In addition, in connection with the Company's CBM operations in the Raton Basin in Colorado, the Colorado Supreme Court recently affirmed the ruling of a state water court, which held that the use of water tributary to surface flows in CBM operations should be subject to water-use regulation under an additional agency as is the case with other uses of water in the state, including the need for the obtaining of permits, possible competition with other claimants for the use of the water and the possibility of providing augmentation water supplies for water rights owners with more senior rights. There can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not adversely affect the Company's business and operations. See "Item 1. Business — Competition, Markets and Regulations" in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion regarding government regulation.       Item 2.   Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds