Item 1A. Risk Factors  In addition to the other information set forth in this Report, you should carefully consider the risks discussed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K under the headings “Item 1. Business – Competition, Markets and Regulations,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” which risks could materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition or future results. Except as stated below, there has been no material change in the Company’s risk factors from those described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves.  Drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and these operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier as a result of a variety of factors, including:      •    unexpected drilling conditions;      •    unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations;      •    equipment failures or accidents;      •    adverse weather conditions;      •    restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and      •    access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services and personnel required to complete the Company’s drilling, completion and operating activities.  The Company’s future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the Company’s future results of operations and financial condition. While all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. The Company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2010. Increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. Although the Company has experienced some decrease in these costs over the past year, such decreases could be short-lived. A return to the trends of increasing demand and costs in the future may affect the Company’s profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development projects as scheduled and on budget.  The Company’s expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities.  The Company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling and enhanced recovery activities. These drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the Company’s future drilling plans. The Company’s ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services and personnel, and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, the Company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or    55    Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY     meet the Company’s expectations for success. As such, the Company’s actual drilling and enhanced recovery activities may materially differ from the Company’s current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations.  The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with its business.  The United States Congress recently adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the Company, that participate in that market. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) has also proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets, although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the CFTC will adopt those rules or include comparable provisions in its rulemaking under the new legislation. The financial reform legislation may require the Company to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements, although the application of those provisions to the Company is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to the Company’s derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the Company encounters, reduce the Company’s ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts, and increase the Company’s exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If the Company reduces its use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, the Company’s results of operations may become more volatile and its cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. The Company’s revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on the Company, its financial condition, and its results of operations.  Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.  Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to fracture the surrounding rock and to stimulate oil and gas production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions and has not been subject to federal regulation. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing practices. A committee of the U.S. House of Representatives is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. Legislation has been introduced before the United States Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure to the government or the public of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. In addition, some states are considering adopting regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances and that could give authority to regulatory agencies other than oil and gas commissions (such as environmental or water commissions) to regulate hydraulic fracturing. Some legislators and other persons have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could or do adversely affect drinking water supplies. Some of the proposed legislation could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. These laws and regulations, if adopted, could result in additional permitting requirements at the state or federal level that could lead to permitting delays and increases in costs. These laws and regulations, if adopted, could also make it more difficult or costly for us to perform hydraulic fracturing and could increase the Company’s costs of compliance and doing business. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that the Company is able to produce from its reserves.  Legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to offshore operations could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions.  The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (the “OPA”) and regulations adopted pursuant to the OPA impose a variety of requirements related to the prevention of and response to oil spills into waters of the United States. The OPA subjects operators of offshore leases and owners and operators of oil handling facilities to strict, joint and several liability for    56    Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY     all containment and cleanup costs and certain other damages arising from a spill, including, but not limited to, the costs of responding to a release of oil, natural resource damages, and economic damages suffered by persons adversely affected by an oil spill. The OPA also requires owners and operators of offshore oil production facilities to establish and maintain evidence of financial responsibility to cover costs that could be incurred in responding to an oil spill. The State of Alaska has also adopted laws and regulations relating to offshore operations in its waters. The United States Congress is currently considering a variety of amendments to the OPA in response to the recent Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico, including an increase in the minimum level of financial responsibility, elimination of liability limitations, and enhancements to safety and spill-response requirements. Additional state regulation in these areas is also possible. Any new requirements would likely increase the cost of operations for the Company’s offshore activities, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. If the Company is unable to satisfy new legislative and regulatory requirements, it may be required to curtail operations, sell its offshore properties or operations, or enter into partnerships with other companies that can meet the new requirements, which may have an adverse effect on the value of the Company’s offshore assets and the results of its operations. The Company cannot predict at this time whether the OPA will be amended or new state regulations adopted, or what the substance of any such amendment or regulations will be. In addition, the Company’s costs could also increase for its onshore operations due to changes in standard industry practices in anticipation of, or in reaction to, any new offshore regulation.      Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds