Item 1A. Risk Factors  In addition to the other information set forth in this Report, you should carefully consider the risks discussed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K under the headings “Part I, Item 1. Business – Competition, Markets and Regulations,” “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Part II, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” which risks could materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition or future results. Except as set forth below, and as set forth in Item 1A of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, there has been no material change in the Company’s risk factors from those described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Laws and regulations pertaining to threatened and endangered species could delay or restrict the Company’s operations and cause it to incur substantial costs.  Various state and federal statutes prohibit certain actions that adversely affect endangered or threatened species and their habitats, migratory birds, wetlands and natural resources. These statutes include the Endangered Species Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, the Clean Water Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of threatened or endangered species. A critical habitat or suitable habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or oil and gas development. If harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities, or at times private parties, may act to prevent oil and gas exploration or development activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling or construction or releases of oil, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and may seek damages and, in some cases, criminal penalties.  These risks are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that it currently deems to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or future results.    55    Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY      Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds