Item 1A. Risk Factors  In addition to the other information set forth in this Report, you should carefully consider the risks discussed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K under the headings “Part I Item 1. Business – Competition, Markets and Regulations,” “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Part II, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” which risks could materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition or future results. Except as set forth below, there has been no material change in the Company’s risk factors from those described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Recently Proposed Rules Regulating Air Emissions from Oil and Gas Operations Could Cause the Company to Incur Increased Capital Expenditures and Operating Costs  On July 28, 2011, the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) proposed rules that would establish new air emission controls for oil and gas production and gas processing operations. Specifically, the EPA’s proposed rule package includes New Source Performance Standards to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds (“VOCs”) and a separate set of emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with oil and gas production and processing activities. The EPA’s proposal would require the reduction of VOC emissions from oil and gas production facilities by mandating the use of “green completions” for hydraulic fracturing, which requires the operator to recover rather than vent the gas and NGLs that come to the surface during completion of the fracturing process. The proposed rules also would establish specific requirements regarding emissions from compressors, dehydrators, storage tanks and other production equipment. In addition, the rules would establish new leak detection requirements for gas processing plants. The EPA will receive public comment and hold hearings regarding the proposed rules and must take final action on them by February 28, 2012. If finalized, these rules could require a number of modifications to the Company’s operations including the installation of new equipment. Compliance with such rules could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact the Company’s business.  The Company is growing production in areas of high industry activity, which may impact its ability to obtain the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access needed to complete its development activities as planned or result in increased costs.  The Company’s strategy is to expand drilling activity in areas in which industry activity has increased rapidly, particularly in the Spraberry Trend area, the Eagle Ford shale play in South Texas and the Barnett Shale Combo play in North Texas. As a result, demand for personnel, equipment, hydraulic fracturing, water and other services and resources, as well as access to transportation, processing and refining facilities in these areas has increased, as has the costs for those items. A delay or inability to secure the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access necessary for the Company to complete its development activities as planned could result in a rate of oil and gas production below the rate forecasted, and significant increases in costs would impact the Company’s profitability.  These risks are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that it currently deems to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or future results.    52    Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY      Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds