ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If we fail to sustain our revenue growth while controlling our expenses, the market price of our common stock may decline. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by a company in an early stage of operations. Consistent with a company in an early stage of operations, we continue to incur significant operating expenses to: · develop new software and increase the automation of our manufacturing processes; · execute our consumer marketing campaign and dental professional marketing efforts; · execute clinical research and education plans; · develop technological improvements to our products and new product development; · continue our international sales and marketing efforts; · protect our intellectual property, including trade secrets; and · undertake quality assurance and improvement initiatives. For instance, in an effort to raise the profile of Invisalign and drive prospective patients to our most experienced dental professionals, in the second quarter of 2005, we launched a consumer marketing campaign involving television, radio and print media. Marketing programs of this nature are expensive and may have limited success, if any, and may not result in revenue generation commensurate with its costs. While we achieved profitability beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, we experienced a net loss in the third quarter of 2005. If we are to achieve profitability in future periods, we will need to continue to increase our revenues, while controlling our expenses. We generated positive operating cash flow for the first time in fiscal year 2003 and continued to generate positive operating cash flow in fiscal years 2004 and 2005. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to sustain or increase such positive cash flow from operations, from period to period, in the future. Because our business is evolving, it is difficult to predict our future operating results or levels of growth, and we may not be able to sustain our historical growth rates in future periods. If we do not increase profitability or revenue growth or otherwise meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. We have a limited operating history and expect our future financial results to fluctuate which may cause volatility in our stock price. We were incorporated in April 1997 and began sales of Invisalign in July 1999. Thus, we have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. In addition, we expect our future quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate as we focus on increasing our commercial sales. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to decline. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: · the development and marketing of directly competitive products by existing and new competitors, such as OrthoClear, Inc.; · aggressive price competition from competitors, including OrthoClear; · changes in the timing of product orders; 19    · unanticipated delays in production caused by insufficient capacity, any disruptions in the manufacturing process, including as a result of unexpected turnover in the labor force or the introduction of new production processes; · inaccurate forecasting of revenues, production and other operating costs; · costs and expenditures in connection with ongoing litigation, in particular the litigation related to OrthoClear; · changes in product mix due to the introduction of Invisalign Express, a lower-cost alternative for treating less complex cases; and · investments in research and development to develop new products and enhancements to Invisalign. To respond to these and other factors, we may need to make business decisions that could adversely affect our operating results such as modifications to our pricing policy, business structure or operations. Most of our expenses, such as employee compensation and lease payment obligations, are relatively fixed in the short term. Moreover, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future revenue levels. As a result, if our revenues for a particular period fall below our expectations, we may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any shortfall in revenues. Therefore, our operating results for a given period may be adversely affected. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our results for any one quarter as an indication of our future performance.  We are currently involved in litigation with several former employees stemming from our efforts to protect our intellectual property. This litigation is costly and could distract our management and cause a decline in our results of operations and stock price. We seek to diligently protect our intellectual property rights. On February 2, 2005 we filed a complaint against OrthoClear, Inc., OrthoClear Holdings, Inc., Mr. Chishti, one of our founders, and several former employees. Among other things, the complaint alleges tort, contract, statutory and common law causes of action arising from OrthoClear and the individual defendants’ alleged plan to unlawfully utilize our intellectual property, confidential information and employees. The complaint also alleges that OrthoClear, Mr. Chishti, and other defendants are in breach of contractual obligations, statutory law and common law for attempting to intentionally interfere and disrupt our ongoing business operations and improperly gain access to our customer relationships and trade secrets. The complaint seeks injunctive relief and monetary damages in an amount to be determined. On July 19, 2005, we filed a multi-claim lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against OrthoClear. The complaint alleges numerous violations of the federal Lanham Act (15 U.S.C. §1051 et seq.) by OrthoClear and its officers and employees. These violations include unfair competition, trademark infringement and false advertising. The complaint also alleges violations by OrthoClear of California’s Unfair Practices Act (California Business and Professions Code §17200 et seq.). On January 11, 2006, we filed a complaint with the International Trade Commission (“ITC”) against OrthoClear, seeking to halt the importation into the United States of infringing aligners manufactured by OrthoClear in Pakistan in violation of our patents and other intellectual property rights. The ITC Complaint requests the ITC institute an immediate investigation and ultimately issue an exclusionary order, enforced by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, excluding OrthoClear aligners from importation into the United States. The ITC Complaint also requests the ITC issue two cease and desist orders specifically preventing OrthoClear from importing infringing aligners and from selling in the United States imported OrthoClear aligners. The ITC has determined to institute a formal investigation. In addition, on January 11, 2006, we filed a federal court patent infringement action in the Western District of Wisconsin (Madison). This federal action seeks monetary damages and an injunction to augment the exclusionary relief available from the ITC. 20    Although each of these lawsuits is in the early stages, litigating claims of this type, whether or not ultimately determined in our favor or settled by us, is costly and diverts the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from normal business operations. Any of these results from our litigation could adversely affect our results of operations and stock price. In addition, we are currently a party to various other legal proceedings and claims. Management does not believe that the ultimate outcome of these other legal proceedings and claims will have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. However, in the Ormco litigation, there is no assurance that the court’s decision will not be overturned on appeal. In addition, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases where injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from selling our products. Any of these results from our litigation could adversely affect our results of operations and stock price. See Part I Item 3 of this Form 10-K for a summary of our material pending legal proceedings. We experience competition from manufacturers of traditional braces and expect aggressive competition from these and other companies that may introduce new technologies in the future. Currently, our Invisalign product competes directly against a product called Red, White and Blue, which is manufactured and distributed by Ormco, a subsidiary of Sybron Dental Specialties, and an aligner product manufactured by OrthoClear, Inc. In addition, manufacturers of traditional braces, such as 3M Company, Sybron Dental Specialties and Dentsply International have substantially greater financial resources and manufacturing and marketing experience than we do and may, in the future, attempt to develop an orthodontic system similar to ours. Large consumer product companies may also enter the orthodontic supply market. Furthermore, we may face competition in the future from new companies that may introduce new technologies. We may be unable to compete with these competitors and one or more of these competitors may render our technology obsolete or economically unattractive. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing products or respond effectively to any products developed by new or existing competitors, our business could be harmed. In May 2005, OrthoClear announced the launch of the OrthoClear system, a product that is intended to compete directly with our Invisalign system. Although we intend to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights and prevent OrthoClear from continuing to market any product that infringes on our intellectual property, if OrthoClear is successful in gaining broad market acceptance of its product, our business could be adversely affected. See Part I Item 3 of this Report on Form 10-K for a more complete summary of the OrthoClear litigation. Increased competition from OrthoClear and other competitors has recently resulted in and may in the future result in volume discounting and price reductions, reduced gross margins, reduced profitability and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, volume growth, net profit and stock price. For instance, in the fourth quarter of 2005, in order to encourage continued use of our products, we extended our volume based discount program directed to all of our doctors. In addition, in the second half of 2005, we introduced Invisalign Express, a lower-cost solution for less complex cases as well as a new pricing initiative which had the effect of reducing our average selling price per case. These programs have adversely affected our revenues, gross margin and net profit. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our information technology systems are critical to our business. System integration and implementation issues and system security risks could disrupt our operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems. All information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources. As our  21    business has grown in size and complexity, the growth has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our information technology systems. To effectively manage this growth, we will need to continually upgrade and enhance our information systems to more effectively manage our operations. Throughout 2006 we intend to add additional functionality into our business enterprise systems, which will more efficiently integrate these systems with our other system applications, such as customer facing and manufacturing tools. System upgrades and enhancements require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable employee resources. Delays in integration or disruptions to our business from implementation of these new or upgraded systems could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, we continuously upgrade our customer facing software applications, specifically ClinCheck and VIP. Software applications frequently contain errors or defects, especially when they are first introduced or when new versions are released. In addition, we currently do not have adequate resiliency in our information technology systems. The discovery of a defect or error in a new upgraded version or the failure of our primary information systems may result in the following consequences, among others: loss of revenue or delay in market acceptance, damage to our reputation or increased service costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, in the fourth quarter of 2005 we began transitioning to a new information technology outsourcing provider. We terminated this relationship in the first quarter of 2006 and are currently transitioning back to our original information technology outsourcing provider. Delays in transition and failure to migrate smoothly through this transition could cause business disruptions. In addition, experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Furthermore, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we either internally produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design and manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to eliminate or alleviate security problems, viruses and bugs could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions that may have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. While we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis and any future adverse results from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, we are required to furnish in our Form 10-K an annual report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. While we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the effectiveness of our internal controls to future periods is subject to the risk that our controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, and, as a result, the degree of compliance of our internal control over financial reporting with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls or conclude that our internal controls are ineffective), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. 22    We depend on the sale of Invisalign for the vast majority of our revenues, and any decline in sales of Invisalign or average selling prices would adversely affect revenue, gross margin and net profits. We expect that revenues from the sale of Invisalign will continue to account for the vast majority of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. Continued and widespread market acceptance of Invisalign by orthodontists, GPs and consumers is critical to our future success. If orthodontists and GPs experience a reduction in consumer demand for orthodontic services, if consumers prove unwilling to adopt Invisalign as rapidly as we anticipate or in the volume that we anticipate, if orthodontists and GPs do not collaborate as we expect or if the average selling price of our product declines, our operating results would be harmed. Factors that could cause Invisalign not to achieve market acceptance at the rate at which we expect, as well as the risk related to declining average selling prices are described more fully below. Dental professionals may not adopt Invisalign in sufficient numbers or as rapidly as we anticipate. Our success depends upon increasing acceptance of Invisalign by dental professionals. Invisalign requires orthodontists, GPs and their staff to undergo special training and learn to interact with patients in new ways. In addition, because Invisalign has only been in clinical testing since July 1997 and commercially available only since July 1999, orthodontists and GPs may be reluctant to adopt it until more historical clinical results are available. Also, increasing adoption and cumulative use by orthodontists and GPs will depend on factors such as the capability, safety, efficacy, ease of use, price, quality and reliability of our products, our ability to provide effective sales support, training and service and the availability of competing products, technologies and alternative treatments. In the future, unanticipated poor clinical performance of Invisalign could result in significant adverse publicity and, consequently, reduced acceptance by dental professionals. In addition, increased competition from direct competitors could cause us to lose market share and reduce dental professionals’ efforts and commitment to expand their Invisalign practice. If Invisalign does not achieve growing acceptance in the orthodontic and GP communities, our operating results will be harmed. Consumers may not adopt Invisalign in sufficient numbers or as rapidly as we anticipate. In addition, our success depends upon the acceptance of Invisalign by a substantially larger number of dental professionals as well as potential consumers to whom we are now actively marketing. Invisalign represents a significant change from traditional orthodontic treatment, and consumers may be reluctant to accept it or may not find it preferable to conventional treatment. In addition, consumers may not comply with recommended treatment guidelines for Invisalign, which could compromise the effectiveness of their treatment. We have generally received positive feedback from both orthodontists, GPs and consumers regarding Invisalign as both an alternative to braces and as a clinical method for treatment of malocclusion, but a number of dental professionals believe that Invisalign is appropriate for only a limited percentage of their patients. Market acceptance will depend in part upon the recommendations of dental professionals, as well as other factors including effectiveness, safety, reliability, improved treatment, aesthetics, greater comfort and hygiene compared to conventional orthodontic products and price for Invisalign compared to competing products. Furthermore, consumers may not respond to our direct marketing campaigns or we may be unsuccessful in reaching our target audience. Adoption by consumers may also be affected by general macroeconomic conditions in North America and internationally, which fluctuate and could be affected by unstable global economic, political or other conditions. The orthodontist and GPs may choose not to collaborate and referrals between orthodontists and GPs may not increase at the rate that we anticipate or at all. Our success depends in part upon improving the collaboration and referral relationships between orthodontists and GP dentists. As specialists, orthodontists are a critical part of our business, and we expect that orthodontists will continue to treat the majority of complex cases and continue to drive  23    research for expanding Invisalign applications. We expect, however, that the percentage of revenues generated by GPs will increase, largely due to the fact that there are significantly more GPs than orthodontists. As the primary provider of dental care, GPs have access to a greater number of patients than orthodontists, possess a unique opportunity to educate these patients and introduce them to Invisalign, have the ability to refer appropriate cases to orthodontist and, in certain instances, may chose to treat less complex cases themselves. If this collaboration and increase in referrals does not occur or occurs more slowly than we anticipate, our operating results could be harmed. Declines in average selling prices of our products. In response to challenges in our business, including increased competition, in the second half of 2005, we reduced the list price of full Invisalign cases and introduced Invisalign Express, a lower-cost solution for less complex cases. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2005, we expanded our volume based discount program to all doctors. As a result of these programs, the blended average selling price for our products has declined. We expect each of these programs, and other similar programs that we may introduce in the future, to adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and net profits. Our future success may depend on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new products. Our future success may depend on our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval or clearance of, manufacture and market new products. In the second half of 2005, we launched Invisalign Express a low-cost Aligner system to be used for less complex cases. We are in early testing of a bracket positioning template and other new products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop, sell and achieve market acceptance of these and other new products and applications and enhanced versions of our existing product. The extent of, and rate at which, market acceptance and penetration are achieved by future products is a function of many variables, which include, among other things, price, safety, efficacy, reliability, marketing and sales efforts, the availability of third-party reimbursement of procedures using our new products, the existence of competing products and general economic conditions affecting purchasing patterns. Our ability to market and sell new products may also be subject to government regulation, including approval or clearance by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and foreign government agencies. Any failure in our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products or enhanced versions of existing products and achieve market acceptance of new products and new applications could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and could cause our revenues to decline. We are dependent on our international manufacturing operations, which exposes us to foreign operational, political and other risks that may harm our business. Currently, two of our key production steps are performed in operations located outside of the U.S. At our facility in Costa Rica, technicians use a sophisticated, internally developed computer-modeling program to prepare electronic treatment plans, which are transmitted electronically back to the U.S. These electronic files form the basis of ClinCheck and are used to manufacture Aligner molds. A third party shelter services provider in Juarez, Mexico fabricates Aligners and ships the completed products to our customers. We are currently in the process of relocating our SLA mold fabrication operations from our Santa Clara, California facility to this same third party provider. We expect this relocation to be complete by the second quarter of 2006. As a result of this relocation, our reliance on our international manufacturing operations will continue to increase. Our costs associated with these operations are denominated in Costa Rican colons, Mexican pesos and U.S. dollars. Our increasing reliance on  24    international operations exposes us to risks and uncertainties that may affect our business or results of operation, including: · difficulties in hiring and retaining employees generally, as well as difficulties in hiring and retaining employees with the necessary skills to perform the more technical aspects of our operations; · difficulties in managing international operations, including our relationship with IMS, our third party shelter services provider; · import and export license requirements and restrictions; · controlling production volume and quality of the manufacturing process; · political, social and economic instability; · acts of terrorism and acts of war; · interruptions and limitations in telecommunication services; · product or material transportation delays or disruption; · burdens of complying with a wide variety of local country and regional laws; · trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and · potential adverse tax consequences. If any of these risks materialize in the future, we could experience production delays and lost or delayed revenue. In addition to the risks set forth above, if we do not successfully coordinate the relocation and consolidation of our SLA mold fabrication operations, we may be unable to produce sufficient volume of molds to meet customer demand, which would harm our results of operations. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, and if we are unable to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position may be harmed. Our success will depend in part on our ability to maintain existing intellectual property and to obtain and maintain further intellectual property protection for our products, both in the U.S. and in other countries. Our inability to do so could harm our competitive position. As of December 31, 2005, we had 62 issued U.S. patents, 97 pending U.S. patent applications, and numerous foreign issued patents, as well as pending foreign patent applications. 25     We intend to rely on our portfolio of issued and pending patent applications in the U.S. and in other countries to protect a large part of our intellectual property and our competitive position. However, our currently pending or future patent filings may not result in the issuance of patents. Additionally, any patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable, circumvented, or may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from producing competing products similar in design to our products. During fiscal 2005, requests were filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”) by a San Francisco, California, law firm, acting on behalf of an unnamed party, requesting re-examination of a number of our patents. The USPTO has granted the request to reexamine U.S. Patent Nos. 5,975,893, 6,398,548, 6,309,215, 6,705,863, 6,217,325. As of the date of this Report on Form 10-K, the USPTO issued initial Office Actions with regard to U.S. Patent Nos. 6,217,325 (the ‘325 patent), 6,309,215 (the ‘215 patent) and 5,975,893 (the ‘893 patent). While the pending re-examinations are in a preliminary stage and we are still evaluating all issues, we believe that the claims of the patents in re-examination will be determined to be patentable as currently written or as may be amended during the re-examination proceedings. However, there can be no assurance that we will prevail, and the re-examination proceedings could cause some or all of these patent claims to have a narrower scope of coverage or even to be invalidated, which would have an adverse affect on us. See Part I Item 3 of this Form 10-K for a summary of the USPTO proceedings. In addition, any protection afforded by foreign patents may be more limited than that provided under U.S. patents and intellectual property laws. We also rely on protection of our copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and proprietary information. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and our collaborative partners upon commencement of a relationship with us. However, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection against the unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or other confidential information, and adequate remedies may not exist if unauthorized use or disclosure were to occur. See Part I Item 3 of this Form 10-K for a summary of the OrthoClear litigation. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology through patents, copyrights or trade secrets would impair our competitive advantages and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. In particular, a failure of our proprietary rights might allow competitors to copy our technology, which could adversely affect our pricing and market share. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain key personnel, we may be unable to pursue business opportunities or develop our products. We are highly dependent on the key employees in our clinical engineering, technology development, sales and marketing personnel and management teams. The loss of the services of those individuals may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our product development and other business objectives and could harm our business. Our future success will also depend on our ability to identify, recruit, train and retain additional qualified personnel, including orthodontists. Few orthodontists are accustomed to working in a manufacturing environment since they are generally trained to work in private practices, universities and other research institutions. Thus, we may be unable to attract and retain personnel with the advanced qualifications necessary for the further development of our business. Furthermore, we may not be successful in retaining our key personnel or their services. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business could be materially harmed. If we infringe the patents or proprietary rights of other parties or are subject to a patent infringement claim, our ability to grow our business will be severely limited. Extensive litigation over patents and other intellectual property rights is common in the medical device industry. We have been sued for infringement of third party’s patents in the past and we may be the subject of patent or other litigation in the future. From time to time, we have received and may in the  26    future receive letters from third parties drawing our attention to their patent rights. While we do not believe that we infringe upon any valid and enforceable rights that have been brought to our attention, there may be other more pertinent rights of which we are presently unaware. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination of any litigation or interference proceeding to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities. An adverse determination of this nature could also put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly or require us to seek licenses from third parties. Licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, in which event, our business would be materially adversely affected. See Part I Item 3 of this Form 10-K for a summary of our material pending legal proceedings. We currently rely on third parties to provide key inputs to our manufacturing process, and if our access to these inputs is diminished, our business may be harmed. We currently outsource key portions of our manufacturing process. We rely on a third party shelter services provider located in Juarez, Mexico to fabricate Aligners and to ship the completed product to customers. In addition, by the second quarter of fiscal 2006, we expect to complete the relocation of our SLA mold fabrication process to the same third party shelter services provider in Juarez, Mexico. As a result, if this third party fails to deliver its components or if we lose its services, we may be unable to deliver our products in a timely manner, and our business may be harmed. Any difficulties encountered by the third party shelter services provider with respect to hiring and retaining qualified personnel, and maintaining acceptable manufacturing standards, controls, procedures and policies could disrupt our ability to deliver our products in a timely manner. Finding a substitute manufacturer may be expensive, time-consuming or impossible. We maintain single supply relationships for certain of our key machines and materials technologies, and our business and operating results could be harmed if supply is restricted or ends. We are highly dependent on manufacturers of specialized scanning equipment, rapid prototyping machines, resin and other advanced materials. We maintain single supply relationships for many of these machines and materials technologies. In particular, we are committed to purchase all of our resin from a single-source and our scanning and stereolithography equipment are provided by single suppliers. Technology changes by our vendors could disrupt access to required manufacturing capacity or require expensive, time consuming development efforts to adapt and integrate new equipment or processes. Our growth may exceed the capacity of one or more of these manufacturers to produce the needed equipment and materials in sufficient quantities to support our growth. In the event of technology changes, delivery delays or shortages of these items, our business and growth prospects may be harmed. We have experienced rapid growth, and our failure to manage this growth could harm our business. We have expanded rapidly since we commenced commercial sales in 1999. Our headcount increased from approximately 50 employees as of December 31, 1999 to approximately 1,097 employees as of December 31, 2005. This expansion will continue to place significant demands on our management and other resources and will require us to continue to develop and improve our operational, financial and other internal controls, both in the U.S. and internationally. In particular, rapid growth increases the challenges involved in a number of areas, including recruiting and retaining sufficiently skilled personnel, providing adequate training and supervision to maintain our high quality standards, and preserving our culture and values. Our inability to effectively manage this level of growth could harm our business. 27    We rely on our direct sales force to sell our products, and any failure to maintain our direct sales force could harm our business. Our ability to sell our products and generate revenues depends upon our direct sales force within our domestic market and internationally. As of December 31, 2005 our sales organization consisted of 130 people of which 106 were direct sales representatives and 24 were sales administration and management. We do not have any long-term employment contracts with the members of our direct sales force. The loss of the services of these key personnel may harm our business. In the first half of 2005, approximately 17 orthodontic sales representatives, representing approximately 50% of our orthodontic sales force, left Align and joined OrthoClear. Although we have replaced the majority of these individuals with new sales representatives, to adequately train and successfully deploy new representatives into effected regions and to reestablish strong customer relationships takes time. If we are unable to replace our direct sales force personnel with individuals of equivalent technical expertise and qualifications, or if we are unable to successfully instill such technical expertise or if we fail to reestablish strong relationships with our customers within a relatively short period of time, our revenues and our ability to maintain market share could be materially harmed. Complying with regulations enforced by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other regulatory authorities is an expensive and time-consuming process, and any failure to comply could result in substantial penalties. Our products are medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and internationally. FDA regulations are wide ranging and govern, among other things: · product design, development, manufacture and testing; · product labeling; · product storage; · pre-market clearance or approval; · advertising and promotion; and · product sales and distribution. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions: · warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; · repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our products; · operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; · refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products; · withdrawing clearance or premarket approvals that have already been granted; and · criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, they could harm our business. We must comply with facility registration and product listing requirements of the FDA and adhere to applicable Quality System regulations. The FDA enforces its Quality System regulations through periodic unannounced inspections. We and our third party shelter services provider have not yet been subject to an FDA inspection, and we cannot assure you we or our third party shelter services provider will successfully pass such an inspection in the future. Our failure or the failure of our third party shelter services provider to take satisfactory  28    corrective action in response to an adverse inspection or the failure to comply with applicable manufacturing regulations could result in enforcement action, and we may be required to find alternative manufacturers, which could be a long and costly process. Before we can sell a new medical device in the U.S., or market a new use of or claim for an existing product we must obtain FDA clearance or approval, unless an exemption applies. Obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals can be a lengthy and time-consuming process. Even though the devices we market have obtained the necessary clearances from the FDA, we may be unable to maintain such clearances in the future. Furthermore, we may be unable to obtain the necessary clearances for new devices that we intend to market in the future. Our inability to maintain or obtain regulatory clearances or approvals could materially harm our business. If the security of our customer and patient information is compromised, patient care could suffer, and we could be liable for related damages, and our reputation could be impaired. We retain confidential customer and patient information in our processing centers. Therefore, it is critical that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and that our facilities and infrastructure are perceived by the marketplace and our customers to be secure. Despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. If we fail to meet our clients’ expectations regarding the security of healthcare information, we could be liable for damages and our reputation could be impaired. In addition, patient care could suffer, and we could be liable if our systems fail to deliver correct information in a timely manner. Our insurance may not protect us from this risk. If compliance with healthcare regulations becomes costly and difficult for our customers or for us, we may not be able to grow our business. Participants in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive and frequently changing regulations under numerous laws administered by governmental entities at the federal, state and local levels, some of which are, and others of which may be, applicable to our business. Furthermore, our healthcare provider customers are also subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations that could affect the nature and scope of their relationships with us. The healthcare market itself is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. Regulations implemented pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), including regulations affecting the security and privacy of patient healthcare information held by healthcare providers and their business associates may require us to make significant and unplanned enhancements of software applications or services, result in delays or cancellations of orders, or result in the revocation of endorsement of our products and services by healthcare participants. The effect of HIPAA and newly enforced regulations on our business is difficult to predict, and there can be no assurance that we will adequately address the business risks created by HIPAA and its implementation or that we will be able to take advantage of any resulting business opportunities. Extensive and changing government regulation of the healthcare industry may be expensive to comply with and exposes us to the risk of substantial government penalties. In addition to medical device laws and regulations, numerous state and federal healthcare-related laws regulate our business, covering areas such as: · storage, transmission and disclosure of medical information and healthcare records; 29    · prohibitions against the offer, payment or receipt of remuneration to induce referrals to entities providing healthcare services or goods or to induce the order, purchase or recommendation of our products; and · the marketing and advertising of our products. Complying with these laws and regulations could be expensive and time-consuming, and could increase our operating costs or reduce or eliminate certain of our sales and marketing activities or our revenues. We face risks related to our international sales, including the need to obtain necessary foreign regulatory clearance or approvals. We currently sell our products in Europe, Canada, the United Kingdom, Mexico, Brazil, Australia and Hong Kong, and may expand into other countries from time to time. Recently, we announced our intention to launch sales of Invisalign in Japan. We do not know whether orthodontists, GPs and consumers outside our domestic market will adopt Invisalign in sufficient numbers or as rapidly as we anticipate. In addition, sales of our products outside the U.S. are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. The time required to obtain clearances or approvals required by other countries may be longer than that required for FDA clearance or approval, and requirements for such approvals may differ from FDA requirements. We may be unable to obtain regulatory approvals in one or more of the other countries in which we do business or in which we may do business in the future. We may also incur significant costs in attempting to obtain and maintain foreign regulatory approvals. If we experience delays in receipt of approvals to market our products outside of the U.S., or if we fail to receive these approvals, we may be unable to market our products or enhancements in international markets in a timely manner, if at all. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims, and we may incur substantial expenses if we are subject to product liability claims or litigation. Medical devices involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. We may be held liable if any product we develop or any product that uses or incorporates any of our technologies causes injury or is otherwise found unsuitable. Although we intend to continue to maintain product liability insurance, adequate insurance may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. These costs would have the effect of increasing our expenses and diverting management’s attention away from the operation of our business, and could harm our business. In fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005, the market price for our common stock was volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. The factors include: · quarterly variations in our results of operations and liquidity; · changes in recommendations by the investment community or in their estimates of our revenues or operating results; · speculation in the press or investment community concerning our business and results of operations; · strategic actions by our competitors, such as product announcements or acquisitions; 30    · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us, our customers or competitors; and · general market conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology and medical device companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, class action litigation has often been brought against the issuing company following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. If a securities class action suit is filed against us in the future, we would incur substantial legal fees, and our management’s attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business in order to respond to the litigation. Future sales of significant amounts of our common stock may depress our stock price. A large percentage of our outstanding common stock is currently owned by a small number of significant stockholders. These stockholders have sold in the past, and may sell in the future, large amounts of common stock over relatively short periods of time. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market by our existing stockholders may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Such sales could create public perception of difficulties or problems with our business and may depress our stock price. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting rules and regulations, such as expensing of stock options, could result in unfavorable accounting charges. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Our accounting policies that recently have been or may be affected by changes in the accounting rules are as follows: · revenue recognition; · accounting for share-based payments; and · accounting for income taxes. In particular, the FASB recently enacted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS 123R”) which we will adopt effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. As a result, we expect that SFAS 123R will have a significant adverse effect on our reported financial results and may impact the way in which we conduct our business, which may affect our stock price. 31     We have made use of a shareholders rights’ plan to limit the possibility that we are acquired, which may mean that a transaction that shareholders are in favor of or are benefited by may be prevented. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such shares without any further vote or action by our shareholders. To date, our board of directors has designated 200,000 shares as Series A participating preferred stock in connection with our shareholder rights’ plan. The issuance of preferred stock under certain circumstances could have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of our company or otherwise adversely affecting the rights of the holders of our stock. The shareholder rights’ plan may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of our company which is deemed undesirable by our board of directors. The shareholder rights’ plan may cause substantial dilution to a person or group attempting to acquire us on terms or in a manner not approved by our board of directors, except pursuant to an offer conditioned on the negation, purchase or redemption of the rights issued under the shareholder rights’ plan. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS