Item 1A.    Risk Factors.    In addition to the other information in this report and our other filings with the SEC, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating MMC and its businesses. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing MMC and its subsidiaries. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or otherwise, may also impair our business operations. If any of the risks described below or such other risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Legal and regulatory proceedings by federal and state regulators and law enforcement authorities concerning MMC and certain of its subsidiaries, particularly our insurance and reinsurance brokerage operations, as well as class actions, derivative actions and individual suits brought by policyholders and shareholders, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In October 2004, the Office of the New York State Attorney General (the “NYAG”) filed a civil complaint in New York State court against MMC and Marsh Inc. asserting claims under New York law for fraudulent business practices, antitrust violations, securities fraud, unjust enrichment, and common law fraud relating to Marsh’s broker compensation arrangements, including in particular Marsh’s compensation under market services agreements. Also in October 2004, the New York State Insurance Department (the “NYSID”) issued a citation ordering MMC and a number of its subsidiaries and affiliates that hold New York insurance licenses to appear at a hearing and show cause why regulatory action should not be taken against them. This citation, which also related to Marsh’s broker compensation arrangements, charged the respondents with the use of fraudulent, coercive and dishonest practices; violations of the New York General Business Law relating to contracts or agreements for monopoly or in restraint of trade; and violations of the New York Insurance Law that resulted from unfair methods of competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices. On January 30, 2005, MMC and Marsh entered into an agreement with the NYAG and the NYSID to settle the NYAG lawsuit and the NYSID citation (the “Settlement Agreement”). Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, we agreed to establish a fund of $850 million, payable over four years, for eligible policyholder clients. In 2004, we recorded a charge for the full amount of this fund and on June 1, 2005 we made our first payment into the fund, in the amount of $255 million. Our next payment, also in the amount of $255 million, is due on June 1, 2006. Approximately 70,000 eligible policyholders across the United States have elected to receive a distribution from the fund, and will receive approximately $750 million of the $850 million made available thereunder. The Settlement Agreement does not resolve any investigation, proceeding or action commenced by the NYAG or the NYSID against any of our former or current employees. Since the filing of the NYAG lawsuit, ten former Marsh employees have pleaded guilty to criminal charges relating to the matters under investigation. On September 15, 2005, eight former Marsh employees (including one individual who has since pleaded guilty) were indicted on various counts relating to these same matters. The NYAG has indicated that its investigation of the insurance industry is continuing. Notwithstanding the Settlement Agreement, numerous other lawsuits have been commenced against us, one or more of our subsidiaries, and our current and former directors and officers, relating to matters alleged in the NYAG lawsuit. Numerous putative class action suits purportedly brought on behalf of policyholders and our shareholders against us, certain of our subsidiaries and certain of our current and former officers and directors are pending in various federal and state courts and in Canada. Shareholder derivative suits have been filed in various jurisdictions. There are also several actions brought by individual policyholders and additional suits may be filed by other policyholders. The myriad claims asserted in these suits include alleged violations of federal  19       securities and antitrust laws, ERISA, RICO, and other statutory and common law claims, and seek significant damages. In addition, the State of Connecticut has commenced a lawsuit against Marsh challenging Marsh’s conduct in connection with the placement of a loss portfolio transfer of workers’ compensation claims for the State of Connecticut’s Department of Administrative Services. Following the announcement of the NYAG lawsuit and the related actions taken by MMC, MMC’s stock price dropped from approximately $45 per share to a low of approximately $22.75 per share. In addition, following the filing of the NYAG lawsuit, MMC and certain of its subsidiaries received notices of investigations and inquiries, together with requests for documents and information, from attorneys general, departments of insurance and other governmental entities in a significant number of jurisdictions (other than New York) that relate to the allegations in the NYAG lawsuit. Offices of attorneys general in 22 jurisdictions have issued one or more requests for information or subpoenas calling for the production of documents or for witnesses to provide testimony. Subpoenas, letters of inquiry and other information requests have been received from departments of insurance or other state agencies in 38 jurisdictions. Given the number of pending investigations, there is a significant possibility that MMC or its subsidiaries could face administrative proceedings or other regulatory actions, fines or penalties, including, without limitation, actions to revoke or suspend insurance broking licenses. MMC also has been contacted by certain state attorneys general and commissioners of insurance indicating that they may seek additional monetary or other remedies from MMC. An adverse outcome under any of the lawsuits and regulatory actions involving MMC and its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the lawsuits and regulatory actions could result in negative publicity, reputational damage and harm to our client and employee relationships. Any of these developments could negatively affect revenues in our insurance and reinsurance brokerage and other businesses. For further information about the above and other legal and regulatory matters involving MMC and its subsidiaries, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this report. We may not be successful in implementing our new business model and restructuring plans. Since 2004, MMC has made significant changes to its business model, including the elimination of contingent compensation, or market services, agreements with insurers. The elimination of market services revenue has negatively affected our financial results. We recognized market services revenue of $124 million in 2005, relating to insurance placements made before October 1, 2004. This was a decrease of $417 million from 2004, and we expect that market services revenue in 2006 will be lower than in 2005. MMC’s new business model includes an initiative whereby Marsh seeks to increase revenue through higher commissions and fees that are disclosed to its clients. While we expect that this incremental revenue will affect MMC’s results in 2006, Marsh’s revenue initiative is subject to competitive challenges and has been progressing more slowly than anticipated. As a result, we cannot be sure of the timing or amount of the incremental revenue to be achieved. In light of our new business environment, we have examined our cost structure to identify areas where expenses can be reduced. As a result of this examination, in the fourth quarter of 2004 we initiated a restructuring plan including, among other features, the reduction of headcount and the consolidation of facilities. In 2005 we began further restructuring initiatives in response to our business environment. As discussed more fully below under Item 7 (“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”), we expect our 2004 and 2005 restructuring initiatives to result in annual cost savings of $775 million. We cannot assure you,  20       however, that we will achieve this level of cost savings, in which case our restructuring efforts would not affect our profitability as positively as we expect. We may not be able to collect our remaining accounts receivable for market services revenue earned before October 1, 2004. Effective October 1, 2004, Marsh agreed to eliminate contingent compensation agreements with insurers. As of December 31, 2005, we had $130 million of accounts receivable recorded in our financial statements related to market services revenue earned prior to October 1, 2004. While we intend to collect this outstanding market services revenue, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in collecting all amounts due. To the extent the accrued amounts are not collected, a charge to our earnings would result. We may experience loss of key personnel and clients. Across all of our businesses, we must preserve our capabilities to serve clients and the capacity to support staff development. Retention of our employees therefore is critical to us, and the loss of key managerial personnel or significant revenue producers could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Since late 2004 we have developed compensation programs to retain, motivate, and reward certain key employees, but we cannot be certain of our ability to retain our key employees or attract similar new employees in the future. In addition, as a result of the recent legal and regulatory matters referred to above, we may lose important clients, or experience difficulty in generating new business, in our insurance brokerage or other businesses. In this event, our revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Regulatory investigations and lawsuits arising from market-timing and other issues at Putnam may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2003 and 2004 Putnam entered into settlements with the SEC and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (the “Massachusetts Securities Division”), with respect to excessive short-term trading by certain former Putnam employees in shares of the Putnam Funds. Also, in late 2003 and continuing through Spring 2005, Putnam received document subpoenas and/or requests for information from various other federal and state enforcement authorities inquiring into, among other things, the matters that were the subject of the proceedings by the SEC and the Massachusetts Securities Division. Various offices of the SEC, the Massachusetts Securities Division and the Department of Labor are investigating Putnam with respect to, among other things, plan expense reimbursements with certain multi-employer deferred compensation plans that are Putnam clients, Putnam Research Fund’s investment management fee, the ERISA aspects of certain investments by the Putnam Profit Sharing Retirement Plan and certain other ERISA issues, and issues relating to the notices accompanying certain closed-end distributions. During the course of the SEC’s investigation of certain matters that arose in the defined contribution plan administration business formerly conducted by PFTC, issues arose relating to the calculation of certain cost reimbursements paid in previous years by the Putnam Funds to Putnam for transfer agent services relating to defined contribution operations. These issues are being reviewed by Putnam and the trustees of the Putnam Funds and, pending the completion of this review, Putnam has recorded charges totaling $37 million for the estimated cost that it believes will be necessary to address these issues. Putnam has briefed the SEC, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and other governmental authorities on this matter.  21       In addition, MMC and Putnam have received complaints in over 70 civil actions based on allegations of “market-timing” and, in some cases, “late trading” activities. These actions were filed in courts in various states, with all actions filed in federal court now having been transferred to the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Certain Putnam entities have also been sued in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts for alleged violations of the Investment Company Act of 1940 in connection with the receipt of purportedly excessive advisory and distribution fees paid by the mutual funds in which plaintiffs purportedly owned shares. Putnam is also a defendant in a lawsuit by a former institutional client alleging that Putnam breached its investment management agreement and did not make appropriate disclosures to the client at the time the investment management agreement was executed, and Putnam also is awaiting the conclusion of an arbitration process involving similar issues with another former institutional client. An adverse outcome under, or reputational damage caused by, any of the legal and regulatory matters involving Putnam could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For further information about the above and other legal and regulatory matters involving MMC and its subsidiaries, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements appearing under Item 8 of this report. Putnam may not be able to maintain its investment management and administrative fee revenues at current levels. Putnam’s revenue is derived primarily from investment management and 12b-1 fees received from the Putnam Funds and investment management fees received from institutional clients. Investment management revenues depend largely on the total value and composition of assets under management. Among the particular factors affecting assets under management are the levels of investments and withdrawals by current and new mutual fund shareholders and institutional clients. In 2005, assets under Putnam’s management were adversely affected, and may continue to be adversely affected in the future, by redemptions in response to the underperformance in prior years of certain Putnam Funds relative to competing products in the mutual fund marketplace, as well as by the “market-timing” and “short-term” trading issues referred to above. Continued declines in Putnam’s assets under management would negatively affect results of operations in our investment management segment. The advisory contracts pursuant to which Putnam receives fees for investment management services provided to the Putnam Funds continue in effect only so long as approved, at least annually, by the funds’ shareholders or trustees, including a majority who are not affiliated with Putnam. Putnam’s management and the fund trustees regularly review the fund fee structure in light of fund performance, the level and range of services provided, industry conditions and other relevant factors. Effective January 1, 2006, pursuant to discussions held with the trustees during the annual management contract review, Putnam reduced the management fees it receives with respect to nine of its 12 closed-end mutual funds. Further reductions in management fees payable under these contracts and/or the termination of one or more of these contracts could have a material adverse effect on results of operations in our investment management segment. Also, as discussed under Item 7 (“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”), most of the open-end Putnam Funds have adopted 12b-1 plans pursuant to which the mutual funds make payments to PRM to cover costs for various distribution and related services. Each of these 12b-1 plans, and payments made by the respective Putnam mutual funds thereunder, is subject to annual renewal by the fund’s trustees and to termination by vote of the fund’s shareholders or by vote of a majority of the fund trustees who are not affiliated with  22       Putnam. Actions by the trustees to reduce the level of 12b-1 fees paid by a fund or to make other changes that would reduce the amount of 12b-1 fees received by Putnam, or the failure of the trustees to approve continuation of the 12b-1 plans for Class B (deferred sales charge) shares, would have a material adverse effect on the results of operations in our investment management segment. We are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from “errors and omissions” claims. MMC’s operating companies provide numerous services for clients around the world. For example, Marsh advises on and places insurance coverage, and sometimes provides related services such as risk management advice and claims management and collections. Guy Carpenter performs similar services in its role as a reinsurance broker. Mercer renders a variety of consulting and investment management services. As a result of these and other activities, MMC operating companies are potentially subject to errors and omissions, or E&O, claims by clients and third parties who may allege that they were damaged as a result of MMC’s failure to perform its duties as expected. MMC works hard to minimize its potential E&O exposures by, among other things, prevention and remediation efforts and employee education/training, but it is not possible to prevent E&O exposures completely. When E&O claims do arise, claimants often seek monetary damages. In the case of Marsh and Guy Carpenter, claimants may allege losses representing the value of insurance or reinsurance coverage lost due to broker negligence. In the case of Mercer, claimants may allege losses due to negligent investment or consulting advice. E&O claims in any given case can be significant and may subject MMC, in addition to potential liability for monetary damages, to reputational harm and diversion of personnel and management resources. Since 2001, the worldwide market for professional liability insurance for E&O claims in the financial services industry has contracted significantly, which has caused MMC to assume increasing levels of self-insurance for its potential E&O exposures. MMC uses internal actuarial and other estimates, and case-level reviews by inside and outside counsel, to establish loss reserves which it believes are adequate to provide for this self-insured retention. These reserves are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. Nevertheless, given the unpredictability of E&O claims and of litigation which could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on MMC’s results of operations or financial condition in a given quarterly or annual period. For further information about our E&O exposure and related insurance coverage, including self-insurance, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements appearing under Item 8 of this report. Declines in premium rate levels in the insurance and reinsurance markets could adversely affect our Risk and Insurance Services segment revenues. We derive most of our revenues in the risk and insurance services segment, which comprised 47% of our 2005 operating segments revenue, from fees paid by clients and commissions paid out of premiums charged by insurance and reinsurance companies. This compensation is frequently based on premiums paid by insureds, which we do not determine and which vary widely based on market conditions, which may differ by market cycles, by location and by type of coverage. Factors that may cause market premium levels to decline include expanded underwriting capacity of insurance carriers, increased competition among insurance carriers and consolidation in the insurance markets. Declines in premium levels generally or in any particular insurance market would adversely affect revenues derived from our insurance and reinsurance broking activities. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We generally face strong competition across all of our business segments from providers of similar products and services. In particular, we have encountered competitive pressures in our Risk  23       and Insurance Services segment as a result of the recent legal and regulatory matters referred to above. In our investment management segment, Putnam’s competitive position has been adversely affected, and may continue to be adversely affected in the future, by the underperformance in prior years of certain Putnam funds relative to competing products in the mutual fund marketplace. Mercer’s consulting and administration businesses face increasing competitive pressures, due in part to an increasing focus by regulators, clients and others on potential conflicts of interest. Our cost of financing has been negatively affected by our recent legal and regulatory issues and credit rating downgrades since October 2004. We may need to raise additional financing in the future in order to fund maturing debt obligations and, possibly, to fund acquisitions or other growth in our business. Largely as a result of the legal and regulatory matters referred to above, our cost of financing has been, and may continue to be, negatively affected. Following the filing of the NYAG lawsuit in October 2004, uncertainty regarding changes in our business model, the impact of eliminating contingent compensation agreements and potential fines and/or penalties resulted in credit rating downgrades by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s. Further credit rating downgrades could negatively affect our access to and cost of financing sources. We are exposed to various risks associated with the global nature of our operations. We have significant worldwide operations, which subjects us to associated legal, economic, operational and market risks. These risks include, among others:   •   the economic and political conditions in foreign countries;      •   the imposition of local investment or other restrictions by foreign governments;      •   the imposition of controls or limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies or remittance of dividends and other payments from foreign subsidiaries;      •   the imposition of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments from subsidiaries;      •   difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations; and      •   costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws.    Some of our brokerage subsidiaries in foreign countries receive revenue that differs from their functional currencies. Also, we generally must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. Although we periodically use derivative financial instruments to help protect against adverse effects due to exchange rate fluctuations, we cannot eliminate these risks, and significant changes in exchange rates may have an adverse effect on our financial results. Actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business. Our activities are subject to licensing requirements and extensive regulation under the laws of the United States and its various states, the European Union and the laws of the many other countries in which our subsidiaries operate. Our four business segments depend on the validity of, and continued good standing under, the licenses and approvals pursuant to which they operate, as well as compliance with applicable regulations. In all jurisdictions, applicable laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally, such authorities are vested with relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, and to implement regulations. Licenses may be denied or  24       revoked for various reasons, including the violation of such regulations, conviction of crimes and similar matters. Possible sanctions that may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business for specified periods of time, revocation of licenses, censures, redress to clients and fines. In some instances, we follow practices based on our interpretations, or those generally followed by the industry, of laws or regulations, which may prove to be different from those of regulatory authorities. Accordingly, the possibility exists that we may be precluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise fined or penalized in a given jurisdiction. We cannot assure you that our risk and insurance services, risk consulting and technology, investment management or consulting activities will continue to be conducted in any given jurisdiction as they have been in the past. Any significant impairment of our ability to conduct our business as we historically have done could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For further information about regulatory conditions affecting our business segments, see Item 1 (“Business”). We may not be able to successfully integrate the businesses that we acquire. We have a history of numerous acquisitions, including our $1.9 billion acquisition of Kroll in July 2004 and nine acquisitions in 2005 for total consideration of $68 million, and we expect that acquisitions will continue to be a part of our growth strategy. Acquired businesses may not achieve the levels of revenue, profit or productivity we anticipate or otherwise perform as we expect. Acquisitions involve special risks, including the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies and difficulties in integrating acquired businesses. While we intend that our acquisitions will improve our competitiveness and profitability, we cannot assure you that our past or future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet our operational or strategic expectations.   Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments.