Item 1A. Risk Factors  The following should be read in conjunction with, and supplements and amends, the factors that may affect the Company’s business or operations described under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, of the 2012 Annual Report.  Economic Environment and Capital Markets-Related Risks  If Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally Persist, They May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations  Our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in financial asset classes or various markets, including global capital markets, can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. Global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, deflation and inflation can all affect our financial condition, as well as the volume, profitability and results of our business operations, either directly or by virtue of their impact on the business and economic environment generally and on general levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior specifically. Disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. Upheavals in the financial markets can also affect our financial condition (including our liquidity and capital levels) as a result of mismatched impacts on the value of our assets and our liabilities. While our diversified business mix and geographically diverse business operations partially mitigate these risks, correlation across regions, countries and global market factors may reduce the benefits of diversification.  At times, throughout the past few years, volatile conditions have characterized financial markets, and not all global financial markets are functioning normally. Significant market volatility, and government actions taken in response, may exacerbate some of the risks we face. Concerns about economic conditions, capital markets and the solvency of certain European Union member states, including Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain (“Europe’s perimeter region”), as well as Cyprus, their banking systems and of the financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries or significant exposure to their banking systems, have been a cause of elevated levels of market volatility. This market volatility affected the performance of various asset classes during 2012, and it could continue until there is an ultimate resolution of these sovereign debt and banking system-related concerns. Despite public and private support programs for Europe’s perimeter region, concerns about sovereign debt sustainability subsequently expanded to other European Union member states. As a result, in late 2011 and early 2012, several other European Union member states experienced credit ratings downgrades or had their credit ratings outlook changed to negative. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — Current Environment.” The financial markets have also been affected by concerns that one or more countries may exit the Euro zone. Any of these concerns could have significant adverse effects on the European and global economic and financial markets generally.  To the extent these uncertain financial market conditions persist, our revenues and net investment income are likely to remain under pressure. Similarly, sustained periods of low interest rates could cause our profit margins to erode. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment.” Also, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the recent global credit crisis, we could incur significant capital and/or operating losses due to, among other reasons, losses incurred in our general account and as a result of the impact on us of guarantees and/or collateral requirements associated with our captive reinsurers and other similar arrangements. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility.  We are a significant writer of variable insurance products and certain other products issued through separate accounts. The account values of these products decrease as a result of declining equity markets. Decreases in account values reduce fees generated by these products, cause the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs to accelerate, could increase the level of insurance liabilities we must carry to support such products issued with any associated guarantees and could require us to provide additional funding to our captive reinsurers. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely    176    Table of Contents  affected. Group insurance, in particular, is affected by higher unemployment rates. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Furthermore, our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Such adverse changes in the economy could negatively affect our earnings and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  The recent financial crisis has precipitated, and may continue to raise the possibility of, legislative, judicial, regulatory and other governmental actions. See “— Regulatory and Legal Risks — Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth,” as well as “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Profitability” included in the 2012 Annual Report.  Regulatory and Legal Risks  Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth  Insurance Regulation — U.S. Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Insurance Regulation” included in the 2012 Annual Report. We anticipate that we will discuss regulatory developments from time to time in future quarterly reports on Form 10-Q under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments.”  State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, that are made for the benefit of the consumer sometimes lead to additional expense for the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Recently, the NAIC and the Department of Financial Services have been scrutinizing insurance companies’ use of affiliated captive reinsurers or off-shore entities to hedge and reinsure insurance risks. Like many life insurance companies, we utilize captive reinsurers to satisfy certain reserve requirements. If the Department of Financial Services or other state insurance regulators restrict the use of such captive reinsurers or if we are unable to continue to use existing captive reinsurers or use captive reinsurers in the future for any reason, our ability to write certain products, or to hedge the associated risks efficiently and/or our risk based capital ratios and ability to deploy excess capital, could be adversely affected or, as a result, we may need to increase prices on those products, which could adversely impact our competitive position and our results of operations. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Holding Company Regulation — Insurance Regulatory Examinations” and Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the 2012 Annual Report.  The NAIC is also reviewing life insurers’ use of non-variable separate accounts that are insulated from general account claims, which might lead to a recommendation against the allowance of insulation for certain of our separate account products, particularly in the institutional markets. If the Department of Financial Services or other state insurance regulators change applicable laws or regulations in accordance with such recommendation, our use of insulation for certain products could be impaired and our ability to compete effectively or do business in certain markets may be adversely affected. In addition, our financial results may also be adversely affected. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Holding Company Regulation — Insurance Regulatory Examinations” included in the 2012 Annual Report.  U.S. Federal Regulation Affecting Insurance. Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. However, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) establishes the Federal Insurance Office within the Department of the Treasury, which has the authority to participate in the negotiations of international insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the U.S., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards.  Federal legislation and administrative policies can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies, including policies regarding financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance    177    Table of Contents  companies. Other aspects of our insurance operations could also be affected by Dodd-Frank. Under the so-called Volcker Rule, Dodd-Frank imposes additional capital requirements and quantitative limits on certain trading and activities by a non-bank systemically important financial institution (“non-bank SIFI”). MetLife, Inc. could be subject to such requirements and limits were it to be designated as a non-bank SIFI. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI” included in the 2012 Annual Report.  Non-bank SIFIs and certain other large financial companies can be assessed under Dodd-Frank for any uncovered costs arising in connection with the resolution of a systemically important financial company and to cover the expenses of the Office of Financial Research, an agency established by Dodd-Frank to improve the quality of financial data available to policymakers and facilitate more robust and sophisticated analysis of the financial system. Regulatory Agencies. Dodd-Frank established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), which supervises and regulates institutions providing certain financial products and services to consumers. Although the consumer financial services to which this legislation applies exclude insurance business of the kind in which we engage, the CFPB has authority to regulate non-insurance consumer services provided by MetLife. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI — Consumer Protection Laws” included in the 2012 Annual Report.  In addition, MetLife, Inc.’s subsidiary, MetLife Bank, a federally chartered, non-deposit taking, uninsured bank, is principally regulated by the OCC and the CFPB, and secondarily by the Federal Reserve Board. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Banking Regulation” included in the 2012 Annual Report. While MetLife, Inc. has de-registered as a bank holding company, it may, in the future, be designated by the Financial Stability Oversight Council as a non-bank SIFI, and could once again be subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board and subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI — Enhanced Prudential Standards” included in the 2012 Annual Report.  In the wake of the recent financial crisis, national and international authorities have also proposed various measures intended to increase the intensity of regulation of large financial institutions. These measures have included enhanced risk-based capital requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements, single counterparty exposure limits, governance requirements for risk management, stress test requirements, special debt-to-equity limits for certain companies, and early remediation procedures, resolution and recovery planning, as well as greater coordination among regulators and efforts to harmonize regulatory regimes. The imposition of such measures could adversely affect our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect our capital. See “Business — U.S. Regulation” and “Business — International Regulation” included in the 2012 Annual Report.  Mortgage and Foreclosure-Related Exposures. State and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have initiated various inquiries, investigations and examinations of alleged irregularities in the foreclosure practices of the residential mortgage servicing industry, mortgage origination and mortgage servicing practices. While we have reached settlements with some regulators relating to our mortgage servicing activities, it is possible that pending or additional inquiries, investigations or examinations may result in further monetary payments or other measures against us. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Mortgage and Foreclosure-Related Exposures.”  Regulation of Brokers and Dealers. Dodd-Frank also authorizes the SEC to establish a standard of conduct applicable to brokers and dealers when providing personalized investment advice to retail and other customers. This standard of conduct would be to act in the best interest of the customer without regard to the financial or other interest of the broker or dealer providing the advice. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Securities, Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation” included in the 2012 Annual Report.  Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) Considerations. We provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Consequently, our activities are likewise subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code, including the requirement that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries, and not cause a plan to engage in prohibited transactions with persons who have certain relationships with respect to those plans.    178    Table of Contents The prohibited transaction rules generally restrict the provision of investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and Individual Retirement Accounts (“IRAs”) if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, the firm or affiliate that vary according to the recommendation chosen. Recently adopted regulations in this area provide some relief from these investment advice restrictions. If additional relief is not provided, the ability of our affiliated broker-dealers and their registered representatives to provide investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and IRAs would likely be significantly restricted. Other proposed regulations in this area may negatively impact the current business model of our broker-dealers, including proposed changes to broaden the definition of “fiduciary” under ERISA, thereby increasing the regulation of persons providing investment advice to ERISA plans. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) Considerations” included in the 2012 Annual Report.  International Regulation. Our international insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. See “Business — International Regulation” included in the 2012 Annual Report. A significant portion of our revenue is generated through operations in foreign jurisdictions, including many countries in early stages of economic and political development. Our international operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as any nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability, dividend limitations, price controls, changes in applicable currency, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold to U.S. dollars or other currencies. This may also impact many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries. Changes in the laws and regulations that affect these customers and independent sales intermediaries also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. Accordingly, these changes and actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions. We expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the U.S., as well as general regulatory oversight, to continue to increase. The authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. The regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability” included in the 2012 Annual Report.  We are also subject to the evolving Solvency II insurance regulatory directive for our insurance business throughout the European Economic Area, and may be subject to similar solvency regulations in other regions. As requirements are finalized by the regulators, capital requirements might be impacted in a number of jurisdictions. In addition, our legal entity structure throughout Europe may impact our capital requirements, risk management infrastructure and reporting by country. See “Business — International Regulation” included in the 2012 Annual Report.  General. From time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of MetLife, Inc.’s regulated subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. In addition, the interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. We are also subject to other regulations and may in the future become subject to additional regulations. See “Business — U.S. Regulation” and “Business — International Regulation” included in the 2012 Annual Report. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments” for additional information on the laws and regulations affecting our business.    179    Table of Contents Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds