Item 1A. Risk Factors The following should be read in conjunction with, and supplements and amends, the factors that may affect the Company’s business or operations described under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, of the 2012 Annual Report, as supplemented and amended by the information under “Risk Factors” in Part II, Item 1A of MetLife, Inc.’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2013 and June 30, 2013, which are incorporated herein by reference.Economic Environment and Capital Markets-Related RisksIf Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally Persist, They May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of OperationsOur business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in financial asset classes or various markets, including global capital markets, can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. Global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, deflation and inflation can all affect our financial condition, as well as the volume, profitability and results of our business operations, either directly or by virtue of their impact on the business and economic environment generally and on general levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior specifically. Disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. Upheavals in the financial markets can also affect our financial condition (including our liquidity and capital levels) as a result of mismatched impacts on the value of our assets and our liabilities. While our diversified business mix and geographically diverse business operations partially mitigate these risks, correlation across regions, countries and global market factors may reduce the benefits of diversification. At times, throughout the past few years, volatile conditions have characterized financial markets, and not all global financial markets are functioning normally. Significant market volatility, and government actions taken in response, may exacerbate some of the risks we face. Concerns about economic conditions, capital markets and the solvency of certain European Union (“EU”) member states, including Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain (“Europe’s perimeter region”), as well as Cyprus, their banking systems and of the financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries or significant exposure to their banking systems, have been a cause of elevated levels of market volatility. This market volatility has affected the performance of various asset classes at various times, and it could continue until there is an ultimate resolution of these sovereign debt and banking system-related concerns. Despite public and private support programs for Europe’s perimeter region, concerns about sovereign debt sustainability subsequently expanded to other EU member states. As a result, in late 2011 and early 2012, several other EU member states experienced credit ratings downgrades or had their credit ratings outlook changed to negative. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — Current Environment.” The financial markets have also been affected by concerns that one or more countries may exit the Euro zone. Moreover, the financial markets have been affected by concerns over U.S. fiscal policy. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Financial and Economic Environment.” Any of these concerns could have significant adverse effects on the economic and financial markets generally. To the extent these uncertain financial market conditions persist, our revenues and net investment income are likely to remain under pressure. Similarly, sustained periods of low interest rates could cause our profit margins to erode. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment.” Also, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the recent global credit crisis, we could incur significant capital and/or operating losses due to, among other reasons, losses incurred in our general account and as a result of the impact on us of guarantees and/or collateral requirements associated with our captive reinsurers and other similar arrangements. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. We are a significant writer of variable insurance products and certain other products issued through separate accounts. The account values of these products decrease as a result of declining equity markets. Decreases in account values reduce fees generated by these products, cause the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs to accelerate, could increase the level of insurance liabilities we must carry to support such products issued with any associated guarantees and could require us to provide additional funding to our captive reinsurers.195Table of ContentsIn an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. Group insurance, in particular, is affected by higher unemployment rates. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Furthermore, our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Such adverse changes in the economy could negatively affect our earnings and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The recent financial crisis has precipitated, and may continue to raise the possibility of, legislative, judicial, regulatory and other governmental actions. See “— Regulatory and Legal Risks — Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth” below as well as “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Profitability” included in the 2012 Annual Report. Regulatory and Legal Risks Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our GrowthOur insurance operations and brokerage businesses are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. See “Business — U.S. Regulation” and “Business — International Regulation” included in the 2012 Annual Report, as supplemented by discussions of regulatory developments in our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments,” and as further supplemented below. Insurance Regulation — U.S.State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, that are made for the benefit of the consumer sometimes lead to additional expense for the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Recently, the NAIC and the New York State Department of Financial Services (“Department of Financial Services”) have been scrutinizing insurance companies’ use of affiliated captive reinsurers or off-shore entities, and the Department of Financial Services on June 11, 2013 issued a highly critical report setting forth its findings to date relating to its inquiry into the life insurance industry’s use of captive insurance companies. In its report, the Department of Financial Services recommended that (i) the NAIC develop enhanced disclosure requirements for reserve financing transactions involving captive insurers, (ii) the Federal Insurance Office (the “FIO”), Office of Financial Research (the “OFR”), the NAIC and state insurance commissioners conduct inquiries similar to the Department of Financial Services inquiry and (iii) state insurance commissioners consider an immediate national moratorium on new reserve financing transactions involving captive insurers until these inquiries are complete. Like many life insurance companies, we utilize captive reinsurers to satisfy statutory reserve requirements. If the Department of Financial Services or other state insurance regulators restrict the use of such captive reinsurers or if we otherwise are unable to continue to use captive reinsurers in the future, our ability to write certain products, or to hedge the associated risks efficiently and/or our risk based capital ratios and ability to deploy excess capital, could be adversely affected or, we may need to increase prices on those products, which could adversely impact our competitive position and our results of operations. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Holding Company Regulation — Insurance Regulatory Examinations” and Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the 2012 Annual Report. The NAIC is also reviewing life insurers’ use of non-variable separate accounts that are insulated from general account claims, which might lead to a recommendation against the allowance of insulation for certain of our separate account products, particularly in the institutional markets. If the Department of Financial Services or other state insurance regulators change applicable laws or regulations in accordance with such recommendation, our use of insulation for certain products could be impaired and our ability to compete effectively or do business in certain markets may be adversely affected. In addition, our financial results may also be adversely affected. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Holding Company Regulation — Insurance Regulatory Examinations” included in the 2012 Annual Report. 196Table of ContentsU.S. Federal Regulation Affecting InsuranceCurrently, the U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. However, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) establishes the FIO within the Department of the Treasury, which has the authority to participate in the negotiations of international insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the U.S., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards. Federal legislation and administrative policies can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies, including policies regarding financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. Other aspects of our insurance operations could also be affected by Dodd-Frank. For example, under the so-called Volcker Rule, Dodd-Frank imposes additional capital requirements and quantitative limits on certain trading and activities by a non-bank systemically important financial institution (“non-bank SIFI”). MetLife, Inc. could be subject to such requirements and limits were it to be designated as a non-bank SIFI. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI” included in the 2012 Annual Report. Non-bank SIFIs and certain other large financial companies can be assessed under Dodd-Frank for any uncovered costs arising in connection with the resolution of a systemically important financial company and to cover the expenses of the OFR, an agency established by Dodd-Frank to improve the quality of financial data available to policymakers and facilitate more robust and sophisticated analysis of the financial system. Federal Regulatory Agencies Dodd-Frank established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), which supervises and regulates institutions providing certain financial products and services to consumers. Although the consumer financial services to which this legislation applies exclude insurance business of the kind in which we engage, the CFPB has authority to regulate non-insurance consumer services provided by MetLife. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI — Consumer Protection Laws” included in the 2012 Annual Report. MetLife, Inc.’s subsidiary, MetLife Home Loans LLC, which merged with MetLife, Inc.’s former subsidiary MetLife Bank, National Association, is regulated by the CFPB.While MetLife, Inc. has de-registered as a bank holding company, it may, in the future, be designated by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) as a non-bank SIFI, as more fully discussed below, and could once again be subject to regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”) and subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI — Enhanced Prudential Standards” included in the 2012 Annual Report. 197Table of ContentsThe FSOC issued final rules in April 2012, outlining a three-stage process it will follow and the criteria it will use to assess whether a non-bank financial company should be subject to enhanced supervision by the Federal Reserve Board as a non-bank SIFI. On July 16, 2013, MetLife was notified by the FSOC that it had reached Stage 3 in the process to determine whether MetLife would be designated a non-bank SIFI. Regulation of MetLife as a non-bank SIFI could materially and adversely affect our business. The Federal Reserve Board has proposed a set of prudential standards that would apply to non-bank SIFIs, including enhanced risk-based capital requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements, single counterparty exposure limits, governance requirements for risk management, stress test requirements, special debt-to-equity limits for certain companies, early remediation procedures, and recovery and resolution planning through international crisis management groups and under federal regulation. The Federal Reserve Board’s proposal contemplates that these standards would be subject to the authority of the Federal Reserve Board to determine, on its own or in response to a recommendation by the FSOC, to tailor the application of the enhanced standards to different companies on an individual basis or by category, taking into consideration their capital structure, riskiness, complexity, financial activities, size, and any other risk-related factors that the Federal Reserve Board deems appropriate. Accordingly, the manner in which these proposed standards might apply to MetLife, Inc. remains unclear. The Federal Reserve Board has stated that it believes other provisions of Dodd-Frank, known as the Collins Amendment, constrain its ability to tailor capital standards for non-bank SIFIs.In the wake of the recent financial crisis, other national and international authorities have also proposed measures intended to increase the intensity of regulation of large financial institutions, requiring greater coordination among regulators and efforts to harmonize regulatory regimes. For example, the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”) is participating in the initiative of the Financial Stability Board (“FSB”) to identify global systemically important financial institutions by devising a process for designating global systemically important insurers (“G-SIIs”). On July 18, 2013, the FSB published its initial list of nine G-SIIs, which includes MetLife, Inc. G-SII backstop capital requirements for the calculation of additional capital are to be developed by the end of 2014, for application beginning in 2019. In addition, the IAIS has confirmed that it will develop a risk-based global insurance capital standard by 2016. This global insurance capital standard will apply to all internationally active insurance groups, including G-SIIs, with implementation to begin in 2019 after two years of testing and refinement. Any such measures would have to be implemented by legislation or regulation in each applicable jurisdiction, and the impact on MetLife, Inc. and other designated G-SIIs in the U.S. is uncertain. If such measures were adopted, including as a result of our potential designation as a non-bank SIFI, they could materially adversely affect our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect our capital. Enhanced capital requirements could adversely affect our ability to compete with other insurers that are not subject to those requirements, and our ability to issue guarantees could be constrained. We could have to raise the price of the products we offer, reduce the amount of risk we take on, or stop offering certain products altogether. Further, counterparty exposure limits could affect our ability to engage in hedging activities. The Federal Reserve Board could also have the right to require that any of our insurance companies, or insurance company affiliates, take prompt action to correct any financial weaknesses.In the event that MetLife is designated as a non-bank SIFI, we may elect to contest such designation using all available remedies under Dodd-Frank or otherwise. If ultimately designated as a non-bank SIFI, we will consider such structural and other business alternatives that may be available to us in response to such a designation, and we cannot predict the impact that any such alternatives, if implemented, may have on the Company or its security holders.198Table of ContentsMortgage and Foreclosure-Related Exposures State and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have initiated various inquiries, investigations and examinations of alleged irregularities in the foreclosure practices of the residential mortgage servicing industry, mortgage origination and mortgage servicing practices. While we have reached settlements with some regulators relating to our mortgage servicing activities, it is possible that pending or additional inquiries, investigations or examinations may result in further monetary payments or other measures against us. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Mortgage and Foreclosure-Related Exposures.” Regulation of Brokers and Dealers Dodd-Frank also authorizes the SEC to establish a standard of conduct applicable to brokers and dealers when providing personalized investment advice to retail and other customers. This standard of conduct would be to act in the best interest of the customer without regard to the financial or other interest of the broker or dealer providing the advice. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Securities, Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation” included in the 2012 Annual Report. ERISA Considerations We provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Consequently, our activities are likewise subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code, including the requirement that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries, and the requirement under ERISA and the Code that fiduciaries may not cause a plan to engage in prohibited transactions with persons who have certain relationships with respect to those plans. The prohibited transaction rules generally restrict the provision of investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and Individual Retirement Accounts (“IRAs”) if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, the firm or affiliate that vary according to the recommendation chosen. Recently adopted regulations in this area provide some relief from these investment advice restrictions. If additional relief is not provided, the ability of our affiliated broker-dealers and their registered representatives to provide investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and IRAs would likely be significantly restricted. Other proposed regulations in this area may negatively impact the current business model of our broker-dealers, including proposed changes to broaden the definition of “fiduciary”, thereby increasing the regulation of persons providing investment advice to ERISA plans and IRAs. These proposed regulations are expected in 2014. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) Considerations” included in the 2012 Annual Report. 199Table of ContentsInternational Regulation Our international insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. A significant portion of our revenue is generated through operations in foreign jurisdictions, including many countries in early stages of economic and political development. Our international operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as any nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability, dividend limitations, price controls, changes in applicable currency, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold to U.S. dollars or other currencies. This may also impact many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries. Changes in the laws and regulations that affect these customers and independent sales intermediaries also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. Accordingly, these changes and actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions. We expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the U.S., as well as general regulatory oversight, to continue to increase. The authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. The regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability” included in the 2012 Annual Report. We are also subject to the evolving Solvency II insurance regulatory directive established by the European Parliament in 2009 for our insurance business throughout the European Economic Area, and may be subject to similar solvency regulations in other regions. Our insurance business in Mexico will be impacted by Mexico’s implementation of a Solvency II-type regulatory framework, which is expected to be effective in April 2015. As requirements are finalized by the regulators, capital requirements might be impacted in a number of jurisdictions. In addition, our legal entity structure throughout Europe may impact our capital requirements, risk management infrastructure and reporting by country. GeneralFrom time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of MetLife, Inc.’s regulated subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. In addition, the interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. We are also subject to other regulations and may in the future become subject to additional regulations. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.200Table of ContentsLegislative and Regulatory Activity in Health Care and Other Employee Benefits Could Affect our Profitability As a Provider of Life Insurance, Annuities, and Non-Medical Health Insurance Benefit ProductsThe Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, signed into law on March 23, 2010, and The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, signed into law on March 30, 2010 (together, the “Health Care Act”), may lead to fundamental changes in the way that employers, including us, provide health care benefits, other benefits, and other forms of compensation to their employees and former employees. The Health Care Act also imposes requirements on us as a provider of non-medical health insurance benefit and other products and on the purchasers of certain of these products. Beginning in 2014, we will be subject to a new excise tax called the “health insurer fee,” the cost of which will primarily be passed on to group purchasers of certain of our dental and vision insurance products. Additionally, with respect to dental and vision insurance products sold to groups with fifty or fewer employees, we have changed certain of our product offerings. The cost of these product changes will also be reflected in our pricing of such products. The Health Care Act or any other related regulations or regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to offer certain of these products in the same manner as we do today. They could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide certain products, and could harm our competitive position if the Health Care Act has a disparate impact on our products compared to products offered by our competitors.In addition, we employ a substantial number of employees, including sales agents, in the United States to whom we offer employment-related benefits. We also currently provide benefits to certain of our retirees. These benefits are provided under complex plans that are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements. Either the Health Care Act or related regulations or regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and motivate our associates. They could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide employee benefits, and could harm our competitive position if we are subject to fees, penalties, tax provisions or other limitations in the Health Care Act and our competitors are not.The Preservation of Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries and Pension Relief Act of 2010 also includes certain provisions for defined benefit pension plan funding relief. These provisions may impact the likelihood and/or timing of corporate plan sponsors terminating their plans and/or engaging in transactions to partially or fully transfer pension obligations to an insurance company. As part of our Corporate Benefit Funding segment, we offer general account and separate account group annuity products that enable a plan sponsor to transfer these risks, often in connection with the termination of defined benefit pension plans. Consequently, this legislation could indirectly affect the mix of our business, with fewer closeouts and more non-guaranteed funding products, and adversely impact our results of operations.Investments-Related RisksOur Requirements to Pledge Collateral or Make Payments Related to Declines in Estimated Fair Value of Derivatives Transactions or Specified Assets in Connection with Over-the-Counter (“OTC”) Derivatives Cleared and Settled Through Central Clearing Counterparties (“OTC Cleared”) and Traded Bi-laterally with Dealer Counterparties (“OTC Uncleared”), May Adversely Affect Our Liquidity, Expose Us to Central Clearinghouse and Counterparty Credit Risk, and Increase our Costs of Hedging Substantially all of our derivatives transactions require us to pledge collateral related to any decline in the net estimated fair value of such derivatives transactions executed through a specific broker at a clearinghouse or entered into with a specific counterparty on a bi-lateral basis. Certain derivatives financing transactions require us to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in the estimated fair value of the specified assets under certain circumstances to central clearinghouses or our counterparties. The amount of collateral we may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to make under our derivatives transactions may increase under certain circumstances and will likely increase under Dodd-Frank as a result of the requirement to pledge initial margin for OTC Cleared transactions entered into after June 10, 2013 and for OTC Uncleared transactions entered into after the phase-in period, which would be applicable to us in 2019 if the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the SEC adopt the final margin requirements for non-centrally cleared derivatives published by the Bank of International Settlements and International Organization of Securities Commissions in September 2013. Each of these items could also adversely affect our liquidity. Central clearinghouses and counterparties may also restrict or eliminate certain types of previously eligible collateral, which could also adversely affect our liquidity or charge us to pledge such collateral which would increase our costs. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Holding Company Regulation — Regulation of Over-the-Counter Derivatives,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Liquidity and Capital Uses — Pledged Collateral” in the 2012 Annual Report and Note 7 of the Notes to the Interim Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 201Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our BusinessWe May Need to Fund Deficiencies in Our Closed Block; Assets Allocated to the Closed Block Benefit Only the Holders of Closed Block PoliciesMLIC’s plan of reorganization, as amended, established in connection with its demutualization, required that we establish and operate an accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own individual participating whole life insurance policies of MLIC in force at the time of the demutualization are met. The assets and liabilities designated to the closed block were $42.1 billion and $45.7 billion, respectively, at September 30, 2013. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the 2012 Annual Report. We allocated assets to the closed block in an amount that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block may not be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. If they are not, we must fund the shortfall. Even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds.The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies in the closed block. In addition, to the extent that these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the closed block may be greater than they would be in the absence of a closed block. Any excess earnings will be available for distribution over time only to closed block policyholders.Reinsurance May Not Be Available, Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us Against LossesAs part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments. While reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. In certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. For example, for some of our group businesses under which the policies and related reinsurance are subject to periodic (typically annual) renewal, prices may increase at any renewal. Also, for most of our traditional life reinsurance arrangements, it is common for the reinsurer to have a right to increase reinsurance rates on in-force business if there is a systematic deterioration of mortality in the market as a whole. Any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. See “Business — Reinsurance Activity” in the 2012 Annual Report and “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — If the Counterparties to Our Reinsurance or Indemnification Arrangements or to the Derivatives We Use to Hedge Our Business Risks Default or Fail to Perform, We May Be Exposed to Risks We Had Sought to Mitigate, Which Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in MetLife, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2013.Acquisition and Disposition of Businesses and Legal Entity Reorganization-Related RisksWe Could Face Difficulties, Unforeseen Liabilities, Asset Impairments or Rating Actions Arising from Business Acquisitions or Integrating and Managing Growth of Such Businesses, Dispositions of Businesses, or Legal Entity ReorganizationsWe have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. Such activity exposes us to a number of risks. For example, there could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments, including goodwill impairments, that arise in connection with the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may acquire in the future.202Table of ContentsIn addition, there may be liabilities or asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing acquisition-related due diligence investigations. Furthermore, even for obligations and liabilities that we do discover during the due diligence process, neither the valuation adjustment nor the contractual protections we negotiate may be sufficient to fully protect us from losses. Although we generally have rights to indemnification for certain losses, our rights are limited by survival periods for bringing claims and limitations on the nature and amount of losses we may recover, and we cannot be certain that indemnification will be, among other things, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any loss we may suffer. For example, we are indemnified under the stock purchase agreement dated as of March 7, 2010, as amended, by and among MetLife, Inc., American International Group, Inc. (“AIG”) and AM Holdings LLC (formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC) (“AM Holdings”), a subsidiary of AIG, for various tax matters, including U.S. federal income taxes attributable to periods during which the American Life Insurance Company and Delaware American Life Insurance Company (collectively, “ALICO”) business was included in AIG’s consolidated federal income tax return. It is possible, however, that any such indemnification may not be fully collectible.Likewise, when we dispose of subsidiaries or operations, we may remain liable to the acquiror or to third parties for certain losses or costs arising from the divested business. We may also incur a loss on the disposition. The use of our own funds as consideration in any acquisition would consume capital resources, which could affect our capital plan and render those funds unavailable for other corporate purposes. We also may not be able to raise sufficient funds to consummate an acquisition if, for example, we are unable to sell our securities or close related bridge credit facilities. Moreover, as a result of uncertainty and risks associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, rating agencies may take certain actions with respect to the ratings assigned to MetLife, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.Our ability to achieve certain benefits we anticipate from any acquisitions of businesses will depend in large part upon our ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an efficient and effective manner. We may not be able to integrate such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may take longer than expected. The integration of operations and differences in operational culture may require the dedication of significant management resources, which may distract management’s attention from day-to-day business. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be less than expected.The success with which we are able to integrate acquired operations will depend on our ability to manage a variety of issues, including the following:•Loss of key personnel or higher than expected employee attrition rates could adversely affect the performance of the acquired business and our ability to integrate it successfully.•Customers of the acquired business may reduce, delay or defer decisions concerning their use of its products and services as a result of the acquisition or uncertainty related to the consummation of the acquisition, including, for example, potential unfamiliarity with the MetLife brand in regions where we did not have a market presence prior to the acquisition.•If the acquired business relies upon independent distributors to distribute its products, these distributors may not continue to generate the same volume of business for us after the acquisition. Independent distributors may reexamine the scope of their relationship with the acquired business or us as a result of the acquisition and decide to curtail or eliminate distribution of our products.•Integrating acquired operations with our existing operations may require us to coordinate geographically separated organizations, address possible differences in corporate culture and management philosophies, merge financial processes and risk and compliance procedures, combine separate information technology platforms and integrate operations that were previously closely tied to the former parent of the acquired business or other service providers.•In cases where we or an acquired business operates in certain markets through joint ventures, the acquisition may affect the continued success and prospects of the joint venture. Our ability to exercise management control or influence over these joint venture operations and our investment in them will depend on the continued cooperation between the joint venture participants and on the terms of the joint venture agreements, which allocate control among the joint venture participants. We may face financial or other exposure in the event that any of these joint venture partners fail to Meet their obligations under the joint venture, encounter financial difficulty or elect to alter, modify or terminate the relationship.•We may incur significant costs in connection with any acquisition and the related integration. The costs and liabilities actually incurred in connection with an acquisition and subsequent integration process may exceed those anticipated.203Table of ContentsThe prospects of our business also may be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to manage the growth of any acquired business successfully. For example, the life insurance markets in many of the international markets we entered through the ALICO acquisition have experienced significant growth in recent years. Management of growth in these markets to date has required significant management and operational resources and is likely to continue to do so. Future growth of our combined business will require, among other things, the continued development of adequate underwriting and claim handling capabilities and skills, sufficient capital base, increased marketing and sales activities, and the hiring and training of new personnel.There can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing future growth of any acquired business. In particular, there may be difficulties in hiring and training sufficient numbers of customer service personnel and agents to keep pace with any future growth in the number of customers in our developing or developed markets. In addition, we may experience difficulties in upgrading, developing and expanding information technology systems quickly enough to accommodate any future growth. If we are unable to manage future growth, our prospects may be materially and adversely affected.In addition, we may reorganize or consolidate the legal entities through which we conduct business. For example, in the second quarter of 2013, MetLife, Inc. announced its plans to merge three U.S.-based life insurance companies and an offshore reinsurance subsidiary to create one larger U.S.-based and U.S.-regulated life insurance company. The implementation of legal entity reorganizations is a complex undertaking and involves a number of risks similar to those that are present in the case of an acquisition. Many aspects of these transactions are subject to regulatory approvals from a number of different jurisdictions. We may not obtain needed regulatory approvals in the timeframe anticipated or at all, which could reduce or prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of these transactions. These transactions or the related regulatory approvals may entail modifications of certain aspects of our operations or the composition of certain of our investment portfolios, which could result in additional costs or reduce net investment income. We may also incur additional expenses in connection with planning and effectuating these mergers and related transactions. We may encounter delays or unforeseen problems in making changes to our information technology systems that are needed to reflect the mergers. Loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to carry out these transactions. In addition, these transactions may absorb significant attention from our management, which could reduce management’s focus on other aspects of our business. Any of these risks, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. General RisksThe Failure in Cyber- or Other Information Security Systems, as well as the Occurrence of Events Unanticipated in Our Disaster Recovery Systems and Management Continuity Planning Could Result in a Loss or Disclosure of Confidential Information, Damage to Our Reputation and Impairment of Our Ability to Conduct Business EffectivelyOur business is highly dependent upon the effective operation of our computer systems. We rely on these systems throughout our business for a variety of functions, including processing claims and applications, providing information to customers and distributors, performing actuarial analyses and maintaining financial records. We also retain confidential and proprietary information on our computer systems and we rely on sophisticated technologies to maintain the security of that information. Our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer-related penetrations. While, to date, MetLife has not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity, administrative and technical controls and other preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber-incidents and protect our information technology may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems.In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, epidemic, industrial accident, blackout, computer virus, terrorist attack, cyberattack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. In addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable following a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. These interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers’ ability to provide goods and services and our employees’ ability to perform their job responsibilities.204Table of ContentsThe failure of our computer systems and/or our disaster recovery plans for any reason could cause significant interruptions in our operations and result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. Such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and legal claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. While we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides both third-party liability and first party liability coverages, our insurance may not be sufficient to protect us against all losses. MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries maintain a cybersecurity and privacy liability insurance policy with a limit of $15 million.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds