Item 1A. Risk Factors The following should be read in conjunction with, and supplements and amends, the factors that may affect the Company’s business or operations described under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, of the 2013 Annual Report, which are incorporated herein by reference.Regulatory and Legal RisksThe Dodd-Frank Provisions Compelling the Liquidation of Certain Types of Financial Institutions Could Materially and Adversely Affect MetLife, Inc., as Such a Financial Institution and as an Investor in Other Such Financial Institutions, as well as Our InvestorsUnder provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”), if MetLife, Inc. or another financial institution were to become insolvent or were in danger of defaulting on its obligations, it could be compelled to undergo liquidation with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) as receiver. For this new regime to be applicable, a number of determinations would have to be made, including that a default by the affected company would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the United States. If the FDIC were appointed as the receiver for such a company, liquidation of that company would occur under the provisions of the new liquidation authority, and not under the Bankruptcy Code, which ordinarily governs liquidations. In an FDIC-managed liquidation, holders of a company’s debt could be treated differently than under the Bankruptcy Code and similarly-situated creditors could be treated differently. In particular, unsecured creditors and shareholders are intended to bear the losses of the company being liquidated. These provisions could also apply to financial institutions whose debt securities we hold in our investment portfolio and could adversely affect our position as a creditor and the value of our holdings.Dodd-Frank also provides for the assessment of charges against certain financial institutions, including non-bank systemically important financial institutions (“non-bank SIFIs”) and bank holding companies and other financial companies with assets of $50 billion or more, to cover the costs of liquidating any financial company subject to the new liquidation authority. The liquidation authority could increase the funding costs of large bank holding companies or financial companies that might be viewed as systemically significant, such as MetLife, Inc. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI — Orderly Liquidation Authority” included in the 2013 Annual Report.Capital-Related RisksRegulatory Restrictions and Uncertainty and Restrictions Under the Terms of Certain of Our Securities May Prevent Us from Repurchasing Our Stock and Paying Dividends at the Level We WishThe declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by MetLife, Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. There is no requirement or assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends. In addition, payment of dividends on our common stock and our ability to repurchase our common stock have been subject to restrictions arising from our regulation as a bank holding company and may again be subject to restrictions arising from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and Federal Reserve Bank of New York (collectively, the “Federal Reserve”) regulation if we are designated as a non-bank SIFI. The capital requirements that will apply to non-bank SIFIs are unclear. See “Risk Factors — Regulatory and Legal Risks — Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth” included in the 2013 Annual Report. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and repurchase our common stock is subject to restrictions arising from the terms of our preferred stock, junior subordinated debentures and trust securities, so called “dividend stopper” provisions, in situations where we may be experiencing financial stress. For purposes of this discussion, “junior subordinated debentures” are deemed to include MetLife’s Fixed-to-Floating Exchangeable Surplus Trust Securities, which are exchangeable for junior subordinated debentures, and which contain terms with the same substantive effects in this discussion as the terms of MetLife, Inc.’s junior subordinated debentures. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our preferred stock and interest on our junior subordinated debentures are also restricted by the terms of those securities. 161Table of ContentsRegulatory RestrictionsThe Federal Reserve is required under Dodd-Frank to adopt enhanced prudential standards, including heightened capital requirements and stress testing requirements, for non-bank SIFIs. However, it has not yet done so, but it has indicated that it intends to apply enhanced prudential standards to non-bank SIFIs by rule or order. If MetLife, Inc. is designated a non-bank SIFI, the manner in which these proposed standards might apply to MetLife, Inc. remains unclear. The Federal Reserve Board has stated that it believes other provisions of Dodd-Frank, known as the Collins Amendment, constrain its ability to tailor capital standards for non-bank SIFIs. It is possible that these requirements, or any others adopted, could restrict our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our common stock if we were designated a non-bank SIFI. In addition, MetLife, Inc. may not be able to pay dividends if it does not receive sufficient funds from its operating subsidiaries, which are themselves subject to separate regulatory restrictions on their ability to pay dividends. See “Risk Factors — Capital-Related Risks — As A Holding Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its Subsidiaries to Transfer Funds to It to Meet Its Obligations and Pay Dividends” included in the 2013 Annual Report.“Dividend Stopper” Provisions in Our Preferred Stock and Junior Subordinated DebenturesCertain terms of our preferred stock and our junior subordinated debentures may prevent us from purchasing our common stock or paying dividends on our common stock in certain circumstances. Moreover, MetLife, Inc. is a party to certain replacement capital covenants which limit its ability to eliminate these restrictions through the repayment, redemption or purchase of preferred stock or junior subordinated debentures by requiring MetLife, subject to certain limitations, to receive cash proceeds during a specified period from the sale of specified replacement securities prior to any repayment, redemption or purchase. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the 2013 Annual Report for a description of such covenants in effect with respect to junior subordinated debentures and Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the 2013 Annual Report for a description of such restrictions with respect to the preferred stock.Under our preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures, if we have not paid the full dividends on our preferred stock for a dividend period, we may not repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock for that period. If we have not paid in full the accrued interest through the most recent interest payment date on our junior subordinated debentures, we may not repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock), subject to certain exceptions.Trigger Events for the Restrictions on the Payment of Dividends on Our Preferred Stock and Restrictions on the Payment of Interest on Our Junior Subordinated DebenturesIn addition, the preferred stock and the junior subordinated debentures contain provisions that would automatically suspend the payment of preferred stock dividends and junior subordinated debenture interest payments if MetLife, Inc. fails to meet certain tests (“Trigger Events”) at specified times, although in such cases MetLife would be permitted to make the payments if it were able to utilize the “Alternative Payment Mechanism” described below. As a result of the suspension of these payments, the “dividend stopper” provisions would come into effect. A “Trigger Event” would occur if the RBC ratio of MetLife’s largest U.S. insurance subsidiaries in the aggregate (as defined in the applicable instrument) were to be less than 175% of the company action level based on the subsidiaries’ prior year annual financial statements filed (generally around March 1) with state insurance commissioners. A “Trigger Event” would also occur if, at the end of a quarter, consolidated GAAP net income for the four-quarter period ending two quarters before such quarter-end is zero or less and adjusted shareholders’ equity (as defined in the applicable instrument), as of such quarter-end and the end of the quarter two quarters before such quarter-end, declined by 10% or more from its level 10 quarters before such quarter-end. The Trigger Event would continue until there is no longer a Trigger Event at the specified time, and adjusted shareholders’ equity is no longer 10% or more below its level at the beginning of each measurement period described above that is associated with a “Trigger Event.”In order to use the “Alternative Payment Mechanism” referred to above to declare and pay preferred stock dividends or interest on junior subordinated debentures, MetLife must sell common stock during the 90 days preceding the dividend declaration date or sell common stock or certain kinds of warrants to purchase common stock during the 180 days prior to the interest payment date, make dividend or interest payments not in excess of the net proceeds of these sales, and satisfy other specified conditions.Dividends on Our Preferred Stock Are Subject to Declaration by Our Board of DirectorsIn addition to the provisions described above that prevent us from declaring and paying dividends on our preferred stock, dividends on our preferred stock are subject to declaration each quarter by our Board of Directors. If our Board of Directors does not declare dividends on the preferred stock for any quarterly dividend period, the “dividend stopper” provisions in our preferred stock would prevent us from repurchasing or paying dividends on our common stock for that period.162Table of ContentsOptional Deferral of Interest on the Junior Subordinated DebenturesThe junior subordinated debentures provide that MetLife may, at its option and provided that certain conditions are met, defer payment of interest without giving rise to an event of default for periods of up to 10 years (although after five years MetLife, Inc. would be obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell equity securities to raise proceeds to pay the interest), with no limitation on the number of deferral periods that MetLife, Inc. may begin so long as all accrued and unpaid interest is paid with respect to prior deferral periods. If MetLife, Inc. were to elect to defer payments of interest, the “dividend stopper” provisions in the junior subordinated debentures would thus prevent MetLife, Inc. from repurchasing or paying dividends on its common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock) during the period of deferral, subject to exceptions.See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the 2013 Annual Report for additional information about these restrictions.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds