Item 1A. Risk Factors The following should be read in conjunction with, and supplements and amends, the factors that may affect the Company’s business or operations described under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, of the 2013 Annual Report, as supplemented and amended by the information under “Risk Factors” in Part II, Item 1A of MetLife, Inc.’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2014 and June 30, 2014, which are incorporated herein by reference.Regulatory and Legal RisksOur Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth Our insurance operations and brokerage businesses are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. See “Business — U.S. Regulation” and “Business — International Regulation” included in the 2013 Annual Report, as supplemented by discussions of regulatory developments in our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments,” and as further supplemented below.Insurance Regulation - U.S.State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, that are made for the benefit of the consumer sometimes lead to additional expense for the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. State insurance regulators and the NAIC are investigating the use of affiliated captive reinsurers and offshore entities to reinsure insurance risk. Like many life insurance companies, we utilize captive reinsurers to satisfy reserve and capital requirements related to universal life and term life insurance policies. We also cede most of the variable annuity guarantee risks to a captive reinsurer, which allows us to consolidate hedging and other risk management programs. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Executive Summary” for information regarding MetLife, Inc.’s plans to merge three U.S.-based life insurance companies and a former offshore reinsurance subsidiary to create one larger U.S.-based and U.S.-regulated life insurance company. If state insurance regulators restrict the use of such captive reinsurers by following the lead of the New York State Department of Financial Services which has recommended a moratorium on such transactions, or if we otherwise are unable to continue to use captive reinsurers in the future, our ability to write certain products or to hedge the associated risks efficiently, and/or our risk-based capital (“RBC”) ratios and ability to deploy excess capital, could be adversely affected or we may need to increase prices on those products, which could adversely impact our competitive position and our results of operations. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the 2013 Annual Report. For more information on our use of captive reinsurers, see also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Capital — Affiliated Captive Reinsurance Transactions.” The NAIC is also reviewing life insurers’ use of non-variable separate accounts that are insulated from general account claims in the event of an insurance company insolvency, and adopted recommendations, subject to further review and development of guidance as a working group, on July 1, 2014. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, that these recommendations may have on our business. U.S. Federal Regulation Affecting InsuranceCurrently, the U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. However, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) established the Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) within the Department of the Treasury, which has the authority to participate in the negotiations of international insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the U.S., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards. On December 12, 2013, the FIO issued a report, mandated by Dodd-Frank, setting forth recommendations with respect to modernization of insurance regulation in the United States. The report raised the possibility of a greater role for the federal government if states do not achieve greater uniformity in their laws and regulations. We cannot predict whether any such legislation or regulatory changes will be adopted, or what impact they will have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Holding Company Regulation — Federal Initiatives” included in the 2013 Annual Report.192Table of ContentsFederal legislation and administrative policies can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies, including policies regarding financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. Other aspects of our insurance operations could also be affected by Dodd-Frank. For example, Dodd-Frank subjects any entity designated as a non-bank systemically important financial institution (“non-bank SIFI”) to enhanced prudential supervision and authorizes the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”) to impose additional capital requirements. In addition, under the so-called Volcker Rule, the Federal Reserve Board could impose additional capital requirements and quantitative limits on certain trading and investment activities of a non-bank SIFI. MetLife, Inc. could be subject to such requirements and limits were it to be designated as a non-bank SIFI. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — U.S. Regulatory Developments — Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI” included elsewhere herein.Non-bank SIFIs and certain other large financial companies can be assessed under Dodd-Frank for any uncovered costs arising in connection with the resolution of a systemically important financial company and to cover the expenses of the Office of Financial Research, an agency established by Dodd-Frank to improve the quality of financial data available to policymakers and facilitate more robust and sophisticated analysis of the financial system.Federal Regulatory AgenciesDodd-Frank established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), which supervises and regulates institutions providing certain financial products and services to consumers. Although the consumer financial services to which this legislation applies exclude insurance business of the kind in which we engage, the CFPB has authority to regulate non-insurance consumer services provided by MetLife. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Consumer Protection Laws” included in the 2013 Annual Report. MetLife, Inc.’s subsidiary, MetLife Home Loans LLC, which merged with MetLife, Inc.’s former subsidiary, MetLife Bank, is regulated by the CFPB.While MetLife, Inc. has de-registered as a bank holding company, it may, in the future, be designated by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) as a non-bank SIFI, and could once again be subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board and subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — U.S. Regulatory Developments — Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI” included elsewhere herein.On September 4, 2014, the FSOC notified MetLife, Inc. that it has been preliminarily designated as a non-bank SIFI. On October 3, 2014, MetLife, Inc. delivered notice to the FSOC requesting a written and oral evidentiary hearing to contest the FSOC’s proposed determination. In accordance with its regulations, the FSOC held an evidentiary hearing on November 3, 2014 and will make a final determination on MetLife, Inc.’s status as a non-bank SIFI within 60 days after the hearing.193Table of ContentsRegulation of MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI could materially and adversely affect our business. In December 2011, the Federal Reserve Board proposed a set of prudential standards (“Regulation YY”) that would apply a set of prudential standards to non-bank SIFIs, including enhanced RBC requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements, single counterparty exposure limits, governance requirements for risk management, stress test requirements, special debt-to-equity limits for certain companies, early remediation procedures, and recovery and resolution planning. The Federal Reserve Board’s proposal contemplates that these standards would be subject to the authority of the Federal Reserve Board to determine, on its own or in response to a recommendation by the FSOC, to tailor the application of the enhanced standards to different companies on an individual basis or by category, taking into consideration their capital structure, riskiness, complexity, financial activities, size, and any other risk-related factors that the Federal Reserve Board deems appropriate. On February 18, 2014, the Federal Reserve Board adopted amendments to Regulation YY to implement certain of the enhanced prudential standards for bank holding companies and foreign banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. While Regulation YY, as originally proposed, would have applied to non-bank SIFIs, the final rule does not, but the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that it plans to apply enhanced prudential standards to non-bank SIFIs by rule or order. If the Federal Reserve Board requires insurers that are non-bank SIFIs to comply with capital standards or regimes (such as the Basel capital rules that were developed for banks) that do not take into account the insurance business model and the differences between banks and insurers, the business and competitive position of such insurer non-bank SIFIs could be materially and adversely affected. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — U.S. Regulatory Developments — Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — U.S. Regulatory Developments — Enhanced Prudential Standards for Non-Bank SIFIs” included elsewhere herein. Accordingly, the manner in which these proposed standards might apply to MetLife, Inc. remains unclear. The Federal Reserve Board has stated that it believes other provisions of Dodd-Frank, known as the Collins Amendment, constrain its ability to tailor capital standards for non-bank SIFIs. Legislation that would clarify that the Federal Reserve Board may tailor capital rules for insurer member bank systemically important financial institutions has been adopted by the U.S. Senate and the House of Representatives; however, the bills passed by the Senate and House of Representatives differ, and Congress must take action to reconcile the bills before they can be sent to the President for signature.In the wake of the recent financial crisis, other national and international authorities have also proposed measures intended to increase the intensity of regulation of large financial institutions, requiring greater coordination among regulators and efforts to harmonize regulatory regimes. For example, the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”) is participating in the Financial Stability Board’s (“FSB”) initiative to identify global systemically important financial institutions. To this end, the IAIS devised and published a methodology to assess the systemic relevance of global insurers and a framework of policy measures to be applied to global systemically important insurers (“G-SIIs”). In July 2013, the FSB published its initial list of nine G-SIIs, based on the IAIS’ assessment methodology, which includes MetLife, Inc. The FSB will update the list annually beginning in November 2014. For G-SIIs which engage in activities deemed to be systemically risky, the framework of policy measures calls for imposition of additional capital (higher loss absorbency (“HLA”)) requirements on those activities. Given the absence of a common global base on which to calculate the HLA for insurers, the FSB directed the IAIS to develop basic capital requirements (“BCR”). On October 23, 2014, the IAIS released the final BCR approved by the FSB for submission to the Group of Twenty (20 major world economies) leaders in November 2014. The BCR will apply to G-SIIs in 2015. Work on HLA development is in very early stages and how the HLA requirements will be computed remains unclear. The HLA requirements are required to be finalized by the end of 2015. From 2015 to 2018, reporting will be on a confidential basis and subject to refinement by the IAIS. HLA requirements are to be applied in 2019 to companies designated as G-SIIs in 2017. In addition, the IAIS proposes to develop a risk-based global insurance capital standard by 2016 which will apply to all internationally active insurance groups, including G-SIIs, with implementation to begin in 2019 after two years of testing and refinement. The IAIS policy measures would need to be implemented by legislation or regulation in each applicable jurisdiction, and the impact on MetLife, Inc. and other designated G-SIIs is uncertain. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — International Regulatory Developments — Global Systemically Important Insurers.”If such measures were adopted, including as a result of our potential designation as a non-bank SIFI, they could materially adversely affect our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect our capital. Enhanced capital requirements could adversely affect our ability to compete with other insurers that are not subject to those requirements, and our ability to issue guarantees could be constrained. We could have to raise the price of the products we offer, reduce the amount of risk we take on, or stop offering certain products altogether. Further, counterparty exposure limits could affect our ability to engage in hedging activities. The Federal Reserve Board would also have the right to require any of our insurance companies, or insurance company affiliates, to take prompt action to correct any financial weaknesses.194Table of ContentsIn the event that MetLife, Inc. is designated as a non-bank SIFI, we may elect to contest such designation using all available remedies under Dodd-Frank or otherwise. If ultimately designated as a non-bank SIFI, we will consider such structural and other business alternatives that may be available to us in response to such a designation, and we cannot predict the impact that any such alternatives, if implemented, may have on the Company or its security holders.Mortgage and Foreclosure-Related ExposuresState and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have initiated various inquiries, investigations and examinations of alleged irregularities in the foreclosure practices of the residential mortgage servicing industry, mortgage origination and mortgage servicing practices. While we have reached settlements with some regulators relating to our mortgage servicing activities, it is possible that pending or additional inquiries, investigations or examinations may result in further monetary payments or other measures against us. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Mortgage and Foreclosure-Related Exposures.”Regulation of Brokers and DealersDodd-Frank also authorizes the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) to establish a standard of conduct applicable to brokers and dealers when providing personalized investment advice to retail and other customers. This standard of conduct would be to act in the best interest of the customer without regard to the financial or other interest of the broker or dealer providing the advice. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Securities, Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation” included in the 2013 Annual Report.Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) ConsiderationsWe provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Consequently, our activities are likewise subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code, including the requirement that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries, and the requirement under ERISA and the Code that fiduciaries may not cause a plan to engage in prohibited transactions with persons who have certain relationships with respect to those plans.The prohibited transaction rules generally restrict the provision of investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”) if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, his or her firm or their affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen. Regulations adopted in October 2011 in this area provide some relief from these investment advice restrictions. If additional relief is not provided, the ability of our affiliated broker-dealers and their registered representatives to provide investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and IRAs would likely be significantly restricted. Other proposed regulations in this area may negatively impact the current business model of our broker-dealers, including proposed changes to broaden the definition of “fiduciary,” thereby increasing the regulation of persons providing investment advice to ERISA plans and IRAs. These proposed regulations are expected in 2015. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) Considerations” included in the 2013 Annual Report.195Table of ContentsInternational Regulation Our international insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. A significant portion of our revenues is generated through operations in foreign jurisdictions, including many countries in early stages of economic and political development. Our international operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability (including any resulting economic or trade sanctions), dividend limitations, price controls, changes in applicable currency, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold to U.S. dollars or other currencies, as well as other adverse actions by foreign governmental authorities or regulators. This may also impact many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries. Changes in the laws and regulations that affect these customers and independent sales intermediaries or their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. Accordingly, these changes and actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions. We expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the U.S., as well as regulatory oversight, generally, to continue to increase. The authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. The regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — International Regulatory Developments,” as well as “Business — International Regulation” and “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability” included in the 2013 Annual Report.We are also subject to the evolving Solvency II insurance regulatory directive established by the European Parliament in 2009 for our insurance business throughout the European Economic Area, and may be subject to similar solvency regulations in other regions, such as Mexico, Chile and China. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — International Regulatory Developments — Solvency II.” As requirements are finalized by the regulators, capital requirements might be impacted in a number of jurisdictions. In addition, our legal entity structure throughout Europe may impact our capital requirements, risk management infrastructure and reporting by country.GeneralFrom time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of MetLife, Inc.’s regulated subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. In addition, the interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. We are also subject to other regulations and may in the future become subject to additional regulations. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.196Table of ContentsLegislative and Regulatory Activity in Health Care and Other Employee Benefits Could Affect our Profitability As a Provider of Life Insurance, Annuities, and Non-Medical Health Insurance Benefit Products The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, signed into law on March 23, 2010, and The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, signed into law on March 30, 2010 (together, the “Health Care Act”), may lead to fundamental changes in the way that employers, including us, provide health care benefits, other benefits, and other forms of compensation to their employees and former employees. The Health Care Act also imposes requirements on us as a provider of non-medical health insurance benefit and other products and on the purchasers of certain of these products. In 2014 we are subject to a new excise tax called the “health insurer fee,” the cost of which will primarily be passed on to group purchasers of certain of our dental and vision insurance products. Additionally, with respect to dental insurance products sold to groups with fifty or fewer employees, we have changed certain of our product offerings. The cost of these product changes will also be reflected in our pricing of such products. The Health Care Act or any other related regulations or regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to offer certain of these products in the same manner as we do today. They could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide certain products, and could harm our competitive position if the Health Care Act has a disparate impact on our products compared to products offered by our competitors.On July 14, 2014, the District of Columbia (“DC”) adopted a law that imposes an assessment on health insurers doing business in DC, including those that issue policies covering the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act excepted benefits (which includes critical illness, accident, dental, vision, disability income, long-term care and hospital indemnity insurance, among other products the Company sells). This assessment will spread the funding of the DC public healthcare exchange’s $26 million budget across all health insurers, including those that do not and/or could not sell insurance on the exchange. An insurance trade group has filed suit on behalf of the industry challenging this assessment, arguing that it is preempted by the Health Care Act, and that it is unconstitutional. The Company has received assessments totaling approximately $433,000. The court has not yet ruled on this matter and the assessments were paid on September 30, 2014. While the financial impact to the Company of DC’s action will be minimal, if other states successfully adopt this model, there could be an impact on product pricing and sales.In addition, we employ a substantial number of employees, including sales agents, in the United States to whom we offer employment-related benefits. We also currently provide benefits to certain of our retirees. These benefits are provided under complex plans that are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements. The Health Care Act or related regulations or regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and motivate our associates. They could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide employee benefits, and could harm our competitive position if we are subject to fees, penalties, tax provisions or other limitations in the Health Care Act and our competitors are not.The Preservation of Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries and Pension Relief Act of 2010 also includes certain provisions for defined benefit pension plan funding relief. These provisions may impact the likelihood and/or timing of corporate plan sponsors terminating their plans and/or engaging in transactions to partially or fully transfer pension obligations to an insurance company. As part of our Corporate Benefit Funding segment, we offer general account and separate account group annuity products that enable a plan sponsor to transfer these risks, often in connection with the termination of defined benefit pension plans. Consequently, this legislation could indirectly affect the mix of our business, with fewer closeouts and more non-guaranteed funding products, and adversely impact our results of operations.197Table of ContentsInvestments-Related RisksOur Requirements to Pledge Collateral or Make Payments Related to Declines in Estimated Fair Value of Derivatives Transactions or Specified Assets in Connection with OTC-Cleared and OTC-Bilateral Transactions May Adversely Affect Our Liquidity, Expose Us to Central Clearinghouse and Counterparty Credit Risk, and Increase our Costs of Hedging Substantially all of our derivatives transactions require us to pledge collateral related to any decline in the net estimated fair value of such derivatives transactions executed through a specific broker at a clearinghouse or entered into with a specific counterparty on a bilateral basis. Certain derivatives financing transactions require us to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in the estimated fair value of the specified assets under certain circumstances to central clearinghouses or our counterparties. The amount of collateral we may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to make under our derivatives transactions may increase under certain circumstances and will likely increase under Dodd-Frank as a result of the requirement to pledge initial margin for over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives that are cleared and settled through central clearing counterparties (“OTC-cleared”) transactions entered into after June 10, 2013 and for OTC derivatives that are bilateral contracts between two counterparties (“OTC-bilateral”) transactions entered into after the phase-in period, which would be applicable to us in 2019 if the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Federal Reserve Board, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Farm Credit Administration and Federal Housing Finance Agency (collectively, the “Prudential Regulators”), U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and the SEC adopt the final margin requirements for non-centrally cleared derivatives published by the Bank of International Settlements and International Organization of Securities Commissions in September 2013 and re-proposed by the Prudential Regulators and CFTC in September 2014. Each of these items could also adversely affect our liquidity. The Prudential Regulators, CFTC, central clearinghouses and counterparties may also restrict or eliminate certain types of previously eligible collateral, which could also adversely affect our liquidity or charge us to pledge such collateral which would increase our costs. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — U.S. Regulatory Developments — Regulation of Over-the-Counter Derivatives,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Liquidity and Capital Uses — Pledged Collateral,” and Note 7 of the Notes to the Interim Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere herein. 198Table of ContentsItem 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds