Item 1A. Risk Factors The following should be read in conjunction with, and supplements and amends, the factors that may affect the Company’s business or operations described under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, of the 2014 Annual Report. Other than as described in this Item 1A, there have been no other material changes to our risk factors from the risk factors previously disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report.Regulatory and Legal RisksThe following updates and replaces the similarly named sections of the risk factor entitled “Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth” included in the 2014 Annual Report. There have been no material changes to other sections of such risk factor. These sections include: “U.S. Regulation — Insurance Regulation,” “U.S. Regulation — U.S. Federal Regulation Affecting Insurance,” “U.S. Regulation — Other Federal Regulatory Agencies,” “International Regulation — Global Systemically Important Insurers,” and “General” within such risk factor included in the 2014 Annual Report.Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth Our insurance operations and brokerage businesses are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. See “Business — Regulation” included in the 2014 Annual Report, as supplemented by discussions of regulatory developments elsewhere herein and in our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments,” and as further supplemented below.U.S. RegulationRegulation of MetLife, Inc. as a Non-Bank SIFI On December 18, 2014, the Financial Stability Oversight Council designated MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI. As a non-bank SIFI, MetLife, Inc. is subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve and to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. Many of the regulatory requirements that will apply to us have not been specified. The Federal Reserve Board has indicated that it plans to apply enhanced prudential standards to non-bank SIFIs by rule or order. Accordingly, the manner in which these proposed standards might apply to MetLife, Inc. remains unclear. Regulation of MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI could materially and adversely affect our business. In particular, the Federal Reserve Board has not determined the requirements that will govern the amount and composition of capital that MetLife, Inc. is required to hold.If the Federal Reserve Board requires insurers that are non-bank SIFIs to comply with capital standards or regimes (such as the Basel capital rules that were developed for banks) that do not take into account the insurance business model and the differences between banks and insurers, our business and competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. The capital requirements that apply to us could also constrain our ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect our capital. Enhanced capital requirements could adversely affect our ability to compete with other insurers that are not subject to those requirements, and our ability to issue guarantees could be constrained. We could have to raise the price of the products we offer, reduce the amount of risk we take on, or stop offering certain products altogether. Legislation was signed into law on December 18, 2014 relieving the Federal Reserve Board from certain provisions in Dodd-Frank that it believed constrained its ability to tailor capital rules for insurers that are non-bank SIFIs. 152Table of ContentsAdditional prudential standards that the Federal Reserve Board may promulgate for non-bank SIFIs will likely include enhanced RBC requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements, single counterparty exposure limits, governance requirements for risk management, stress test requirements, special debt-to-equity limits for certain companies, and early remediation procedures. In addition, non-bank SIFIs are required to submit a resolution plan setting forth how the company could be resolved under the Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress. The Federal Reserve Board also has the right to require any of MetLife, Inc.’s insurance companies, or insurance company affiliates, to take prompt action to correct any financial weaknesses. In addition, under the Volcker Rule, the Federal Reserve Board could impose additional capital requirements and quantitative limits on certain trading and investment activities of a non-bank SIFI. As a result of our designation as a non-bank SIFI, MetLife, Inc. will be subject to such requirements and limits as the Federal Reserve Board may impose.As a non-bank SIFI, we may consider structural and other business alternatives that may be available to us in response to such designation, and we cannot predict the impact that any such alternatives, if implemented, may have on the Company or its security holders.Non-bank SIFIs and certain other large financial companies can be assessed under Dodd-Frank for any uncovered costs arising in connection with the resolution of a systemically important financial company. In addition, as a non-bank SIFI, MetLife, Inc. must pay, beginning in 2015, certain assessments and other charges.See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — U.S. Regulation — Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI,” as well as “Business — Regulation — U.S. Regulation — Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI” included in the 2014 Annual Report, for additional information regarding regulation of MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI.Mortgage and Foreclosure-Related ExposuresState and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have initiated various inquiries and investigations of alleged irregularities in the foreclosure practices of the residential mortgage servicing industry, mortgage origination and mortgage servicing practices. Although we have reached settlements with some regulators relating to our mortgage servicing activities and FHA loan origination, pending or additional inquiries, investigations or examinations may result in further monetary payments or other measures against us. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Mortgage and Foreclosure-Related Exposures.”ERISA ConsiderationsWe provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to ERISA or the Code. As such, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code, including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries, and that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to engage in certain prohibited transactions. The prohibited transaction rules of ERISA and the Code generally restrict the provision of investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and IRAs if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, his or her firm or their affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen. The DOL proposed new regulations in April 2015 that would substantially expand the definition of “investment advice” and thereby broaden the circumstances under which MetLife, in providing investment advice with respect to ERISA plans or IRAs, could be deemed a fiduciary under ERISA or the Code. The DOL also proposed amendments to its prohibited transaction exemption that would apply more onerous disclosure and contract requirements to, and increase fiduciary requirements in respect of, transactions involving ERISA plans, plan participants and IRAs. If the new DOL proposals become final, MetLife may find it necessary to change sales representative and/or broker compensation and may limit the assistance or advice they can provide. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — U.S. Regulation — ERISA Considerations,” as well as “Business — Regulation — U.S. Regulation — ERISA Considerations” included in the 2014 Annual Report.153Table of ContentsInternational Regulation Our international insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. A significant portion of our revenues is generated through operations in foreign jurisdictions, including many countries in early stages of economic and political development. Our international operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability (including any resulting economic or trade sanctions), dividend limitations, price controls, changes in applicable currency, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold to U.S. dollars or other currencies, as well as other adverse actions by foreign governmental authorities or regulators. This may also impact many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries. Changes in the laws and regulations that affect these customers and independent sales intermediaries or their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. Accordingly, these changes and actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions. We expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the U.S., as well as regulatory oversight, generally, to continue to increase. The authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. The regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — International Regulation,” as well as “Business — Regulation — International Regulation” and “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability” included in the 2014 Annual Report.Solvency RegimesWe are subject to Solvency II (adopted in 2009, effective on 1 January 2016) and will be subject to Omnibus II (adopted in 2014, effective on 1 January 2016), two interlinked insurance regulatory directives that provide a framework for new risk management practices, solvency capital standards and disclosure requirements across our business in the European Economic Area, and may be subject to similar solvency regulations in other regions, such as Mexico, Chile and China. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — International Regulation — Solvency Regimes,” as well as “Business — Regulation — International Regulation — Solvency Regimes” included in the 2014 Annual Report. As requirements are finalized by the regulators, capital requirements might be impacted in a number of jurisdictions. In addition, our legal entity structure throughout Europe may impact our capital requirements, risk management infrastructure and reporting by country.Capital-Related RisksThe following updates and replaces the similarly named sections of the risk factor entitled “Regulatory Restrictions and Uncertainty and Restrictions Under the Terms of Certain of Our Securities May Prevent Us from Repurchasing Our Stock and Paying Dividends at the Level We Wish” included in the 2014 Annual Report. There have been no material changes to other sections of such risk factor. These sections include: “‘Dividend Stopper’ Provisions in Our Preferred Stock and Junior Subordinated Debentures,” “Trigger Events for the Restrictions on the Payment of Dividends on Our Preferred Stock and Restrictions on the Payment of Interest on Our Junior Subordinated Debentures,” “Dividends on Our Preferred Stock Are Subject to Declaration by Our Board of Directors,” and “Optional Deferral of Interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures” within such risk factor included in the 2014 Annual Report.154Table of ContentsRegulatory Restrictions and Uncertainty and Restrictions Under the Terms of Certain of Our Securities May Prevent Us from Repurchasing Our Stock and Paying Dividends at the Level We Wish The declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by MetLife, Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. There is no requirement or assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends. In addition, as a result of MetLife, Inc.’s designation as a non-bank SIFI, we may be subject to restrictions arising from Federal Reserve regulation, including capital planning and stress testing requirements. The capital requirements that will apply to non-bank SIFIs are unclear. See “— Regulatory and Legal Risks — Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.” In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and repurchase our common stock is subject to restrictions arising from the terms of our preferred stock, junior subordinated debentures and trust securities, so called “dividend stopper” provisions, in situations where we may be experiencing financial stress. For purposes of this discussion, “junior subordinated debentures” are deemed to include MetLife’s Fixed-to-Floating Exchangeable Surplus Trust Securities, which are exchangeable for junior subordinated debentures, and which contain terms with the same substantive effects in this discussion as the terms of MetLife, Inc.’s junior subordinated debentures. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our preferred stock and interest on our junior subordinated debentures are also restricted by the terms of those securities. Regulatory RestrictionsThe Federal Reserve Board is required under Dodd-Frank to adopt enhanced prudential standards, including heightened capital requirements and stress testing requirements, for non-bank SIFIs. However, it has not yet done so, but it has indicated that it intends to apply enhanced prudential standards to non-bank SIFIs by rule or order. The manner in which these proposed standards might apply to MetLife, Inc., as a non-bank SIFI, remains unclear. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — U.S. Regulation — Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI,” as well as “Business — Regulation — U.S. Regulation — Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI” included in the 2014 Annual Report. It is possible that these requirements, or any others adopted, could restrict our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our common stock. Furthermore, as a non-bank SIFI, MetLife, Inc. will be subject to stress testing conducted by the Federal Reserve, and our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our stock will be dependent on demonstrating the robustness of our capital planning and projection processes, as well as our ability to maintain our capital levels above regulatory minimum levels under stress scenarios. In addition, MetLife, Inc. may not be able to pay dividends if it does not receive sufficient funds from its operating subsidiaries, which are themselves subject to separate regulatory restrictions on their ability to pay dividends. See “Risk Factors — Capital-Related Risks — As A Holding Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its Subsidiaries to Transfer Funds to It to Meet Its Obligations and Pay Dividends” included in the 2014 Annual Report.General RisksThe following updates and replaces in its entirety the risk factor entitled “State Laws, Federal Laws, Our Certificate of Incorporation and Our By-Laws May Delay, Deter or Prevent Takeovers and Business Combinations that Stockholders Might Consider in Their Best Interests” included in the 2014 Annual Report.State Laws, Federal Laws, Our Certificate of Incorporation and Our By-Laws May Delay, Deter or Prevent Takeovers and Business Combinations that Stockholders Might Consider in Their Best InterestsState laws, federal laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. For instance, such restrictions may prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of MetLife, Inc.’s common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of MetLife, Inc.’s common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. 155Table of ContentsAny person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face various regulatory obstacles, including:•applicable state insurance laws and regulations may delay or impede a business combination involving us by prohibiting an entity from acquiring control (generally presumed to exist at direct or indirect ownership of 10% or more of voting stock) of an insurance company domiciled in the United States without the prior approval of the domestic insurance regulator. Many foreign jurisdictions in which we operate have similar regulatory approval requirements.•Dodd-Frank provisions that restrict or impede consolidations, mergers and acquisitions by systemically significant firms. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — U.S. Regulation — Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI — Enhanced Prudential Standards for Non-Bank SIFIs,” as well as “Business — Regulation — U.S. Regulation — Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI — Enhanced Prudential Standards for Non-Bank SIFIs” included in the 2014 Annual Report.•Provisions of the Investment Company Act that require approval by the contract owners of our variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our variable contracts.•Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) approval requirements for a change of control of any FINRA registered broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of MetLife, Inc.•Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may affect the ability of an “interested stockholder” (the owner of 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation) to engage in certain business combinations for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an “interested stockholder.”In addition, MetLife, Inc.’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests or may otherwise adversely affect prevailing market prices for MetLife, Inc.’s common stock. These provisions include: a prohibition on the calling of special meetings by stockholders; and advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the Board of Directors and stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings. Prior to April 29, 2015, MetLife, Inc.’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contained supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and shareholder amendment of the by-laws. As of April 29, 2015, these voting requirements changed to a majority voting standard. These changes have made it easier for one or more shareholders to change the Company’s corporate governance and, therefore, make it more difficult for the Board of Directors to protect shareholders’ interests, e.g., if they are presented with an acquisition proposal that undervalues the Company.156Table of ContentsItem 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds