Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following should be read in conjunction with, and supplements and amends, the factors that may affect the Company’s business or operations described under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, of the 2015 Annual Report. Other than as described in this Item 1A, there have been no other material changes to our risk factors from the risk factors previously disclosed in the 2015 Annual Report.Regulatory and Legal RisksThe following updates and replaces the similarly named sections of the risk factor entitled “Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth” included in the 2015 Annual Report. There have been no material changes to other sections of such risk factor. These sections include: “U.S. Regulation — Insurance Regulation,” “U.S. Regulation — U.S. Federal Regulation Affecting Insurance,” “International Regulation — Solvency Regimes,” and “General” within such risk factor included in the 2015 Annual Report.Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth Our insurance operations and brokerage businesses are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. See “Business — Regulation” included in the 2015 Annual Report, as amended or supplemented by discussions of regulatory developments elsewhere herein and in our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments,” and as further amended or supplemented below.U.S. RegulationERISA ConsiderationsWe provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to ERISA or the Code. As such, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code, including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries, and that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to engage in certain prohibited transactions. The prohibited transaction rules of ERISA and the Code generally restrict the provision of investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and IRAs if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, his or her firm or their affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen.The DOL issued new regulations on April 6, 2016 with an effective date for most provisions of April 10, 2017. These rules substantially expand the definition of “investment advice” and thereby broaden the circumstances under which MetLife or its representatives, in providing investment advice with respect to ERISA plans, plan participants or IRAs, will be deemed a fiduciary under ERISA or the Code. The DOL also issued amendments to certain of its prohibited transaction exemptions, and issued a new exemption that applies more onerous disclosure and contract requirements to, and increase fiduciary requirements and fiduciary liability exposure in respect of, transactions involving ERISA plans, plan participants and IRAs. We are currently studying the impact of these developments on MetLife’s business. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — U.S. Regulation — ERISA Considerations,” as well as “Business — Regulation — U.S. Regulation — ERISA Considerations” included in the 2015 Annual Report.We cannot predict what other proposals may be made, what legislation may be introduced or enacted or the impact of any such legislation on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Potential Regulation of MetLife, Inc. as a Non-Bank SIFIOn March 30, 2016, the D.C. District Court ordered that the designation of MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI by the FSOC be rescinded. On April 8, 2016, the FSOC filed a notice of appeal of the D.C District Court’s order. On December 18, 2014, the FSOC had designated MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC, as well as to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. On January 13, 2015, MetLife, Inc. had filed an action in the D.C. District Court asking the Court to review and rescind the FSOC’s designation. 154Table of ContentsIf the FSOC prevails on appeal or designates MetLife, Inc. as systemically important as part of its ongoing review of non-bank financial companies, MetLife, Inc. could once again be subject to regulation as a non-bank SIFI. However, many of the regulatory requirements that would apply to us if we were again so designated have not been specified. In particular, the Federal Reserve Board has not determined the requirements that will govern the amount and composition of capital that non-bank SIFIs would be required to hold. The Federal Reserve Board has indicated that it plans to apply enhanced prudential standards to non-bank SIFIs by rule or order. Accordingly, the manner in which these proposed standards might apply to MetLife, Inc. remains unclear. Regulation of MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI could materially and adversely affect our business.If MetLife, Inc. were re-designated as a non-bank SIFI, our business and competitive position could be materially and adversely affected by any requirement of the Federal Reserve Board requiring insurers that are non-bank SIFIs to comply with capital standards or regimes (such as the Basel capital rules that were developed for banks) that do not take into account the insurance business model and the differences between banks and insurers. The capital requirements that would apply to us could also constrain our ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect our capital. Enhanced capital requirements could adversely affect our ability to compete with other insurers that are not subject to those requirements, and our ability to issue guarantees could be constrained. We could have to raise the price of the products we offer, reduce the amount of risk we take on, or stop offering certain products altogether. Legislation was signed into law on December 18, 2014, relieving the Federal Reserve Board from certain provisions in Dodd-Frank that it believed constrained its ability to tailor capital rules for insurers that are non-bank SIFIs.If re-designated as a non-bank SIFI, MetLife, Inc. may also be subject to additional prudential standards that the Federal Reserve Board may promulgate for non-bank SIFIs which will likely include leverage limits, liquidity requirements, single counterparty exposure limits, governance requirements for risk management, stress test requirements, special debt-to-equity limits for certain companies, and early remediation procedures. In addition, if re-designated as a non-bank SIFI, MetLife, Inc. will be required to comply with the requirements applicable to non-bank SIFIs, including the submission of a resolution plan setting forth how the company could be resolved under the Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress. The Federal Reserve Board would also have the right to require any of MetLife, Inc.’s insurance companies, or insurance company affiliates, to take prompt action to correct any financial weaknesses. In addition, under the Volcker Rule, we could be subject to the imposition by the Federal Reserve Board of additional capital requirements and quantitative limits on certain of our trading and investment activities. Non-bank SIFIs and certain other large financial companies can be assessed under Dodd-Frank for any uncovered costs arising in connection with the resolution of a systemically important financial company. In addition, non-bank SIFIs must pay certain assessments and other charges to offset certain costs incurred by the Federal Reserve Board in fulfilling its oversight role and in connection with the Financial Research Fund within the U.S. Department of Treasury that funds the Office of Financial Research.On January 12, 2016, MetLife, Inc. announced its plan to pursue the Separation. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Executive Summary — Other Key Information — Significant Events.” There can be no assurance that the new company that would be created in connection with the Separation will not be designated by the FSOC as a non-bank SIFI, although such a company would be separately evaluated by the FSOC and may not meet a necessary threshold to advance to possible designation, or that any actions taken in furtherance of this plan will affect any decision the FSOC may make to re-designate MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI. We may consider further structural and other business alternatives that may be available to us in response to any re-designation of MetLife as a non-bank SIFI, and we cannot predict the impact that any such alternatives, if implemented, may have on the Company or its security holders. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — U.S. Regulation — Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI,” as well as “Business — Regulation — U.S. Regulation — Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI” included in the 2015 Annual Report, for additional information regarding potential regulation of MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI.155Table of ContentsInternational RegulationGlobal Systemically Important InsurersIn the wake of the financial crisis, national and international authorities have proposed measures intended to increase the intensity of regulation of large financial institutions, requiring greater coordination among regulators and efforts to harmonize regulatory regimes. For example, the IAIS is participating in the FSB’s initiative to identify and manage global systemically important financial institutions. To this end, the IAIS published a methodology to assess the systemic relevance of global insurers and a framework of policy measures to be applied to G-SIIs and, on this basis, the FSB again so designated MetLife, Inc. in 2015. While the regulatory standards that would apply to G-SIIs are still being developed, they will include enhanced capital standards and supervision and other additional requirements that would not apply to companies that are not G-SIIs. The IAIS proposals would need to be implemented at the consolidated group level by legislation or regulation in each applicable jurisdiction. As MetLife, Inc. is no longer a U.S. non-bank SIFI and, therefore, has no consolidated group regulator, the impact on MetLife, Inc. of such proposals is uncertain. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — International Regulation — Global Systemically Important Insurers,” as well as “Business — Regulation — International Regulation — Global Systemically Important Insurers” included in the 2015 Annual Report.Risks Related to Acquisitions, Dispositions or Other Structural ChangesThe following updates and replaces the similarly named sections of the risk factor entitled “We Could Face Difficulties, Unforeseen Liabilities, Asset Impairments or Rating Actions Arising from Business Acquisitions or Integrating and Managing Growth of Such Businesses, Dispositions of Businesses, or Legal Entity Reorganizations” included in the 2015 Annual Report. There have been no material changes to other sections of such risk factor. These sections include: “Risks Relating to Acquisitions,” “Risks Relating to Joint Ventures,” and “Risks Relating to Legal Entity Reorganizations,” within such risk factor included in the 2015 Annual Report.We Could Face Difficulties, Unforeseen Liabilities, Asset Impairments or Rating Actions Arising from Business Acquisitions or Integrating and Managing Growth of Such Businesses, Dispositions of Businesses, or Legal Entity ReorganizationsWe have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Executive Summary — Other Key Information — Significant Events” and Note 3 of the Notes to the Interim Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding MetLife, Inc.’s announcement of its plan to pursue the Separation and its entry into a purchase agreement with MassMutual. Such activity exposes us to a number of risks arising from (i) potential difficulties achieving projected financial results, including the costs and benefits of integration or deconsolidation; (ii) unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments; (iii) the scope and duration of rights to indemnification for losses; (iv) the use of capital which could be used for other purposes; (v) rating agency reactions; (vi) regulatory requirements that could impact our operations or capital requirements; (vii) changes in statutory or U.S. GAAP accounting principles, practices or policies; and (viii) certain other risks specifically arising from activities relating to an initial public offering, spin-off, joint venture or legal entity reorganization, including in connection with the proposed Separation. The valuation and structure for any transaction reflect our financial projections and other qualitative and quantitative factors. Every transaction exposes us to the risk that actual results may materially differ from what we have projected. Factors that can cause our financial projections to vary materially from ultimate experience include, but are not limited to, macroeconomic, business growth, demographic, policyholder behavior, regulatory and political conditions.Risks Relating to DispositionsWe may separate a business through an outright sale, or by alternate means such as a public offering of shares in an independent, publicly traded company or a spin-off, which would also result in a separate, possibly independent and publicly traded, company. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Executive Summary — Other Key Information — Significant Events” and Note 3 of the Notes to the Interim Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information on MetLife, Inc.’s announcement of its plan to pursue the Separation and its entry into a purchase agreement with MassMutual. A Separation, depending on the specific form, would be subject to the satisfaction of various conditions and approvals, including, among other things, approval of any transaction by the MetLife, Inc. Board of Directors, satisfaction of any applicable requirements of the SEC, and receipt of insurance and other regulatory approvals and other anticipated conditions. No assurance can be given regarding the form that the proposed Separation may take or the specific terms thereof, or that the Separation will in fact occur. The transactions contemplated by the purchase agreement with MassMutual are also subject to certain closing conditions, including regulatory approval. 156Table of ContentsUnanticipated developments could delay, prevent or otherwise adversely affect our ability to effect any disposition transaction. Factors which could affect our ability to consummate such transactions include difficulties in finding buyers and delays or other problems with obtaining required regulatory, tax and other approvals, as well as adverse conditions in the capital and credit markets. When we dispose of subsidiaries or operations, we may remain liable to the acquiror or to third parties for certain losses or costs arising from the divested business or on other bases. We may also incur a loss on the disposition. In anticipation of any disposition, we may need to restructure our operations, which could disrupt such operations and affect our ability to recruit key personnel needed to operate and grow such business. In addition, the actions of key employees of the business to be divested could adversely affect the success of such disposition as they may be more focused on obtaining employment, or the terms of their employment, than on maximizing the value of the business to be divested. Any such separation will also decrease the diversification of our sources of revenue and result in a greater percentage of our revenue being derived from non-U.S. sources which may increase our exposure to certain risks. See “— Risks Related to Our Business — Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability.” Any such separation would also affect the dividends available to be paid to MetLife, Inc. by the subsidiaries that are part of such separation. Furthermore, we may be unable to timely dissolve all contractual relationships with the divested business in the course of the proposed transaction, which may materially adversely affect our ability to realize value from the disposition. Such restructuring could also adversely affect our internal controls and procedures and impair our relationships with key customers, distributors and suppliers. An interruption or significant change in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. A distributor has elected to suspend and other distributors may elect to suspend, alter, reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us for various reasons, including uncertainty related to the proposed Separation, changes in our distribution strategy, adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. After any such disposition, shares of our Common Stock will represent an investment in a company different in size and characteristics from the present. These changes may cause some existing shareholders to sell their shares of our Common Stock, which could, if excessive, cause the market price of our Common Stock to decrease. Risks Related to Our BusinessThe following updates and replaces the similarly named sections of the risk factor entitled “Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability” included in the 2015 Annual Report. There have been no material changes to other sections of such risk factor. Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our ProfitabilityThe U.K. has announced a referendum on its membership in the EU to be held in June 2016. If the referendum results in the withdrawal of the U.K. from the EU, the medium term impacts on our business both within the U.K. and the EU are uncertain. A vote to leave would trigger an extended negotiation period between the U.K. and the EU on the U.K.'s future trading relationship with the EU. In the meantime, the U.K. remains a member of the EU with unchanged rights to access the single EU market in goods and services. Our business model relies on certain rights to operate cross-border insurance operations which may be eliminated or modified after the period of negotiation between the U.K. and EU is completed. Currency volatility in both the U.K. and wider EU would likely increase, impacting our businesses in those markets. Operating expenses within our businesses could increase in the event of a U.K. withdrawal.157Table of ContentsItem 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds