Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following should be read in conjunction with, and supplements and amends, the factors that may affect the Company’s business or operations described under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, of the 2015 Annual Report, as amended or supplemented by the information under “Risk Factors” in Part II, Item 1A, of each of the First Quarter 2016 Report and the Second Quarter 2016 Report. Other than as described in this Item 1A, there have been no other material changes to our risk factors from the risk factors previously disclosed in the 2015 Annual Report, as amended or supplemented by such information in the First Quarter 2016 Report and the Second Quarter 2016 Report.Regulatory and Legal RisksThe following updates and replaces the similarly named sections of the risk factor entitled “Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth” included in the 2015 Annual Report, as amended or supplemented by such information in the First Quarter 2016 Report and the Second Quarter 2016 Report. There have been no material changes to other sections of such risk factor, which include: “U.S. Regulation — Insurance Regulation,” “U.S. Regulation — U.S. Federal Regulation Affecting Insurance,” “U.S. Regulation — Potential Regulation of MetLife, Inc. as a Non-Bank SIFI,” “International Regulation” and “General.”Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our GrowthOur insurance operations and brokerage businesses are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. See “Business — Regulation” included in the 2015 Annual Report, as amended or supplemented by discussions of regulatory developments elsewhere herein and in our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments,” and as further amended or supplemented below.U.S. RegulationERISA ConsiderationsWe provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to ERISA or the Code. As such, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code, including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries, and those fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to engage in certain prohibited transactions. The prohibited transaction rules of ERISA and the Code generally restrict the provision of investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and IRAs if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, the firm that employs the advisor or their affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen. Similarly, without an exemption, fiduciary advisors are prohibited from receiving compensation from third parties in connection with their advice. ERISA also affects certain of our in-force insurance policies and annuity contracts, as well as insurance policies and annuity contracts we may sell in the future.The DOL issued new regulations on April 6, 2016 with an effective date for most provisions of April 10, 2017. These regulations substantially expand the definition of “investment advice” and thereby broaden the circumstances under which MetLife or its representatives, in providing investment advice with respect to ERISA plans, plan participants or IRAs, will be deemed a fiduciary under ERISA or the Code. Pursuant to the final regulations, certain communications with plans, plan participants and IRAs holders, including the marketing of products, and marketing of investment management or advisory services, could be deemed fiduciary investment advice, thus causing increased exposure to fiduciary liability if the distributor does not recommend what is in the client’s best interests. While the final regulations also provide that, to a limited extent, contracts sold and advice provided prior to April 10, 2017 do not have to be modified to comply with the new investment advice regulations, there is lack of clarity surrounding some of the conditions for qualifying for this limited exception. There can be no assurance that the DOL will agree with our interpretation of these provisions, in which case the DOL and IRS could assess significant penalties against a portion of products sold prior to April 10, 2017. The assessment of such penalties could also trigger substantial litigation risk. Any such penalties and related litigation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The DOL also issued amendments to certain of its prohibited transaction exemptions, and issued a new exemption that applies more onerous disclosure and contract requirements to, and increases fiduciary requirements and fiduciary liability exposure in respect of, transactions involving ERISA plans, plan participants and IRAs. 185Table of ContentsWhile we continue to analyze the impact of the final regulations on our business, we believe they could have an adverse effect on sales of annuity products to ERISA qualified plans such as IRAs through our independent distribution partners. The new regulations deem advisors, including independent distributors, who sell fixed index-linked annuities to IRAs, IRA rollovers or 401(k) plans, fiduciaries and prohibit them from receiving compensation unless they comply with a prohibited transaction exemption. The exemption requires advisors to comply with impartial conduct standards and may require us to exercise additional oversight of the sales process. Compliance with the prohibited transaction exemption will likely result in increased regulatory burdens on us and our independent distribution partners, changes to our compensation practices and product offerings and increased litigation risk, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — U.S. Regulation — ERISA Considerations,” as well as “Business — Regulation — U.S. Regulation — ERISA Considerations” included in the 2015 Annual Report.We cannot predict what other proposals may be made, what legislation may be introduced or enacted, or what impact any such legislation may have on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Risks Related to Acquisitions, Dispositions or Other Structural ChangesWe May Not Complete the Separation of Brighthouse Financial on the Terms or Timeline Currently Contemplated, if at All On October 5, 2016, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Brighthouse, filed a registration statement on Form 10 with the SEC in connection with the previously announced Separation of a substantial portion of our former Retail segment, as well as certain portions of our former Corporate Benefit Funding segment. The Form 10 reflects our current plan to initiate the Separation in the form of an initial spin-off of 80.1% of the outstanding common stock of Brighthouse. While we and Brighthouse are currently preparing for a spin-off transaction, the ultimate form and timing of a separation will be influenced by a number of factors, including regulatory considerations and economic conditions. We continue to evaluate and pursue structural alternatives for the proposed Separation. While we expect to complete the first part of the Separation in the first half of 2017, unanticipated developments could delay, prevent or otherwise adversely affect the currently proposed spin-off of Brighthouse Financial, including possible problems or delays in obtaining various insurance and other regulatory approvals, tax approvals and disruptions in the capital and financial markets. In addition, consummation of the currently proposed spin-off will require final approval from our Board of Directors. Therefore, we cannot assure that we will complete the Separation in the form, on the terms or on the timeline that we announced, if at all.In order to position ourselves for the proposed Separation, we are actively pursuing strategic, structural and process realignment and restructuring actions within our former Retail segment (now, the Brighthouse Financial and MetLife Holdings segments). These actions could lead to disruption of our operations, loss of, or inability to recruit, key personnel needed to operate and grow our businesses and complete the proposed Separation, weakening of our internal standards, controls or procedures, and impairment of our relationship with key customers and counterparties. We have and will continue to incur significant expenses in connection with the proposed Separation. We also may not achieve certain of the benefits that we expect to achieve in connection with the Separation, including dividends from Brighthouse to MetLife, Inc., due to, among other things, the inability of Brighthouse to raise sufficient funds by the incurrence of debt or otherwise, or lower than expected dividends received by Brighthouse from its subsidiaries. In addition, completion of the proposed Separation will require significant amounts of our management’s time and effort which may divert management’s attention from operating and growing our remaining businesses and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Risks Related to Our BusinessThe following updates and replaces the similar paragraphs in the risk factor entitled “Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability” included in the 2015 Annual Report, as amended or supplemented by such information in the First Quarter 2016 Report and the Second Quarter 2016 Report. 186Table of ContentsOur International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our ProfitabilityOur international operations face political, legal, financial, operational and other risks. These operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets; the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies which may increase our dependence on joint venture counterparties and/or impact how we account for our joint venture ownership interests; changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation; political instability (including any resulting economic or trade sanctions); dividend limitations; price controls; changes in applicable currency; currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies, as well as other adverse actions by foreign governmental authorities and regulators, such as the retroactive application of new requirements on our current and prior activities or operations and the imposition of regulations limiting our ability to distribute our products. Such actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions and could indirectly affect our business in other jurisdictions as well. Some of our foreign insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. For example, proposed reform of the Chilean pension system, if enacted, may have a significant adverse effect on our business in Chile. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — International Regulation.”On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum regarding its membership in the EU, resulting in a narrow vote in favor of leaving the EU. The U.K. subsequently indicated that it will initiate the withdrawal process by the end of March 2017. The member withdrawal provisions in the applicable EU treaty have not been used before so it is unclear how the provisions will work in practice. Assuming the U.K. initiates the withdrawal process by giving notice that it is withdrawing from the EU, the relevant treaty provides that the U.K. and the EU will negotiate a withdrawal agreement during a maximum two-year period (unless such period is extended by unanimous vote of the other EU member states). It is currently anticipated that the withdrawal agreement would deal with the details of the immediate exit but would not set out final trade arrangements or deal comprehensively with other potentially significant matters. Upon effectiveness of the withdrawal agreement, or, if no agreement is concluded in the two-year period, at the end of the period, the U.K. will no longer be a member of the EU. In the meantime, however, the U.K. remains a member of the EU with unchanged rights to access the single EU market in goods and services. Our U.K. business model utilizes certain rights to operate cross-border insurance and investment operations which may be modified or eliminated as a result of the U.K. exiting the EU. Operating expenses within our businesses could increase as a result of uncertainties during the negotiation period and in the event of an eventual U.K. withdrawal.Operational RisksAny Failure To Protect The Confidentiality Of Client Information Could Adversely Affect Our Reputation And Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business, Financial Condition And Results Of OperationsPursuant to U.S. federal and state laws, and laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate, various government agencies have established rules protecting the privacy and security of personal information. In addition, most U.S. states and a number of jurisdictions outside the United States, have enacted laws, which vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, to safeguard the privacy and security of personal information. Many of our employees have access to, and routinely process, personal information of clients through a variety of media, including information technology systems. We rely on various internal processes and controls to protect the confidentiality of client information that is accessible to, or in the possession of, our company and our employees. It is possible that an employee could, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or misappropriate confidential client information or our data could be the subject of a cybersecurity attack. If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls or if our employees fail to comply with our policies and procedures, misappropriation or intentional or unintentional inappropriate disclosure or misuse of client information could occur. Such internal control inadequacies or non-compliance could materially damage our reputation or lead to civil or criminal penalties, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we analyze customer data to better manage our business. There has been increased scrutiny, including from U.S. state regulators, regarding the use of “big data” techniques such as price optimization. We cannot predict what, if any, actions may be taken with regard to “big data,” but any inquiries could cause reputational harm and any limitations could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.187Table of ContentsItem 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds