Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following should be read in conjunction with, and supplements and amends, the factors that may affect the Company’s business or operations described under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, of the 2015 Annual Report, as amended or supplemented by the information under “Risk Factors” in Part II, Item 1A, of MetLife, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 (the “First Quarter 2016 Report”). Other than as described in this Item 1A, there have been no other material changes to our risk factors from the risk factors previously disclosed in the 2015 Annual Report, as amended or supplemented by such information in the First Quarter 2016 Report.Economic Environment and Capital Markets-Related RisksThe following updates and replaces in its entirety the risk factor entitled “If Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally Persist, They May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations” included in the 2015 Annual Report.If Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally Persist, They May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of OperationsOur business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in financial asset classes or various markets, including global capital markets, can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. Global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, deflation and inflation, all affect our financial condition, as well as the volume, profitability and results of our business operations, either directly or by virtue of their impact on the business and economic environment generally and on general levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior specifically. Disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. Upheavals in the financial markets can also affect our financial condition (including our liquidity and capital levels) as a result of mismatched impacts on the value of our assets and our liabilities. While our diversified business mix and geographically diverse business operations partially mitigate these risks, correlation across regions, countries and global market factors may reduce the benefits of diversification.At times throughout the past several years, volatile conditions have characterized financial markets. Significant market volatility, and government actions taken in response, may exacerbate some of the risks we face. Events following the U.K.’s referendum on June 23, 2016 and the uncertainties associated with its potential withdrawal from the EU have contributed to market volatility. Such events and uncertainties, combined with foreign exchange risks, could contribute to weakening GDP growth, primarily in the U.K. and Europe. The magnitude and longevity of the potential negative economic impacts would depend on the detailed agreements reached by the U.K. and EU as a result of the exit negotiations and negotiations regarding trade and other arrangements. Additionally, weakness in the energy and metals and mining sectors and concerns about the political and/or economic stability of countries in regions outside the EU, including China, Ukraine, Russia, Brazil, Japan, Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon, as well as Puerto Rico, have contributed to global market volatility. Concerns about global economic conditions, capital markets and the solvency of certain EU member states, their banking systems and the financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries or their respective banking systems, have also been a cause of elevated levels of market volatility. This market volatility has affected the performance of various asset classes at various times, and it could continue. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — Current Environment” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Financial and Economic Environment.” Any of these factors could have significant adverse effects on the economy and financial markets generally.To the extent these uncertain financial market conditions persist, our revenues and net investment income are likely to remain under pressure. Similarly, sustained periods of low interest rates could cause our profit margins to erode. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment.” Also, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant capital and/or operating losses due to, among other reasons, losses incurred in our general account and as a result of the impact on us of guarantees, capital maintenance obligations and/or collateral requirements associated with our affiliated reinsurers and other similar arrangements. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility, which may also increase the cost and limit the availability of the hedging instruments and other protective measures we take to mitigate such risk.176Table of ContentsWe are a significant writer of variable insurance products and certain other products issued through separate accounts. The account values of these products decrease as a result of declining equity markets. Lower interest rates generally increase account values in the near term, but may result in lower returns in fixed income options in the future. Decreases in account values reduce certain fees generated by these products, cause the amortization of DAC to accelerate, could increase the level of insurance liabilities we must carry to support such products issued with any associated guarantees and could require us to provide additional funding to our captive reinsurers.In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. Group insurance, in particular, is affected by higher unemployment rates. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Furthermore, our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Such adverse changes in the economy could negatively affect our earnings and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy may continue to raise the possibility of legislative, judicial, regulatory and other governmental actions. See “Risk Factors — Regulatory and Legal Risks — Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth,” in the 2015 Annual Report, as amended or supplemented by the First Quarter 2016 Report and below, and “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Profitability” in the 2015 Annual Report.Regulatory and Legal RisksThe following updates and replaces the similarly named sections of the risk factor entitled “Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth” included in the 2015 Annual Report, as amended or supplemented by such information in the First Quarter 2016 Report. There have been no material changes to other sections of such risk factor, which include: “U.S. Regulation — Insurance Regulation,” “U.S. Regulation — U.S. Federal Regulation Affecting Insurance,” “U.S. Regulation — ERISA Considerations,” “International Regulation — Solvency Regimes,” and “General.”Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our GrowthOur insurance operations and brokerage businesses are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. See “Business — Regulation” included in the 2015 Annual Report, as amended or supplemented by discussions of regulatory developments elsewhere herein and in our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments,” and as further amended or supplemented below.U.S. RegulationPotential Regulation of MetLife, Inc. as a Non-Bank SIFIOn December 18, 2014, the FSOC designated MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC, as well as to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. On January 13, 2015, MetLife, Inc. filed an action in the D.C. District Court asking the Court to review and rescind the FSOC’s designation. On March 30, 2016, the D.C. District Court ordered that the designation of MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI by the FSOC be rescinded. On April 8, 2016, the FSOC filed a notice of appeal of the D.C. District Court’s order.177Table of ContentsIf the FSOC prevails on appeal or designates MetLife, Inc. as systemically important as part of its ongoing review of non-bank financial companies, MetLife, Inc. could once again be subject to regulation as a non-bank SIFI. However, many of the regulatory requirements that would apply to us if we were again so designated have not been finalized. Regulation of MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI could materially and adversely affect our business. For example, the Federal Reserve Board has issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking but not yet finally determined the enhanced capital requirements that would apply to insurance company non-bank SIFIs. If MetLife, Inc. were re-designated as a non-bank SIFI, our business and competitive position could be materially and adversely affected by any requirement of the Federal Reserve Board requiring insurers that are non-bank SIFIs to comply with capital standards or regimes that do not take into account the insurance business model and the differences between banks and insurers. The capital requirements outlined in the advance notice of proposed rulemaking that would apply to MetLife, Inc., were it to be re-designated as a non-bank SIFI, could also constrain our ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect our capital. Enhanced capital requirements could adversely affect our ability to compete with other insurers that are not subject to those requirements, and our ability to issue guarantees could be constrained. We could have to raise the price of the products we offer, reduce the amount of risk we take on, or stop offering certain products altogether.The Federal Reserve Board previously implemented stress testing requirements for non-bank SIFIs that will apply once capital standards are adopted. It has also indicated that it plans to apply enhanced prudential standards to non-bank SIFIs by rule or order, and recently issued a notice of proposed rulemaking addressing the governance, risk management and liquidity requirements it is proposing to apply to insurance company non-bank SIFIs. Accordingly, the manner in which these proposed standards might apply to MetLife, Inc., were it to be re-designated as a non-bank SIFI, remains unclear.In addition, if re-designated as a non-bank SIFI, MetLife, Inc. will be required to comply with the requirements applicable to non-bank SIFIs, including the submission of a resolution plan setting forth how the company could be resolved under the Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress. The Federal Reserve Board would also have the right to require any of MetLife, Inc.’s insurance companies, or insurance company affiliates, to take prompt action to correct any financial weaknesses. In addition, under the Volcker Rule, we could be subject to the imposition by the Federal Reserve Board of additional capital requirements and quantitative limits on certain of our trading and investment activities. Non-bank SIFIs and certain other large financial companies can be assessed under Dodd-Frank for any uncovered costs arising in connection with the resolution of a systemically important financial company. In addition, non-bank SIFIs must pay certain assessments and other charges to offset certain costs incurred by the Federal Reserve Board in fulfilling its oversight role and in connection with the Financial Research Fund within the U.S. Department of Treasury that funds the Office of Financial Research.On January 12, 2016, MetLife, Inc. announced its plan to pursue the Separation. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Executive Summary — Other Key Information — Significant Events.” There can be no assurance that the new company that would be created in connection with the Separation will not be designated by the FSOC as a non-bank SIFI, although such a company would be separately evaluated by the FSOC and may not meet a necessary threshold to advance to possible designation, or that any actions taken in furtherance of this plan will affect any decision the FSOC may make to re-designate MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI. We may consider further structural and other business alternatives that may be available to us in response to any re-designation of MetLife as a non-bank SIFI, and we cannot predict the impact that any such alternatives, if implemented, may have on the Company or its security holders. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — U.S. Regulation — Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI,” as well as “Business — Regulation — U.S. Regulation — Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI” included in the 2015 Annual Report, for additional information regarding potential regulation of MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI.178Table of ContentsInternational RegulationGlobal Systemically Important InsurersIn the wake of the financial crisis, national and international authorities have proposed measures intended to increase the intensity of regulation of large financial institutions, requiring greater coordination among regulators and efforts to harmonize regulatory regimes. For example, the IAIS is participating in the FSB’s initiative to identify and manage global systemically important financial institutions. To this end, the IAIS published a methodology to assess the systemic relevance of global insurers and a framework of policy measures to be applied to G-SIIs and, on this basis, the FSB again so designated MetLife, Inc. in 2015. G-SII designation is an annual process, and the IAIS published revised assessment methodology in June 2016. While the regulatory standards that would apply to G-SIIs are still being developed, they will include enhanced capital standards and supervision and other additional requirements that would not apply to companies that are not G-SIIs. The IAIS proposals would need to be implemented at the consolidated group level by legislation or regulation in each applicable jurisdiction. As MetLife, Inc. is no longer a U.S. non-bank SIFI and, therefore, has no consolidated group regulator, the impact on MetLife, Inc. of such proposals is uncertain. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — International Regulation — Global Systemically Important Insurers,” as well as “Business — Regulation — International Regulation — Global Systemically Important Insurers” included in the 2015 Annual Report.Risks Related to Our BusinessThe following updates and replaces in its entirety the risk factor entitled “Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability” included in the 2015 Annual Report, as amended or supplemented by such information in the First Quarter 2016 Report. Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our ProfitabilityOur international operations face political, legal, financial, operational and other risks. These operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets; the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies which may increase our dependence on joint venture counterparties and/or impact how we account for our joint venture ownership interests; changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation; political instability (including any resulting economic or trade sanctions); dividend limitations; price controls; changes in applicable currency; currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies, as well as other adverse actions by foreign governmental authorities and regulators, such as the retroactive application of new requirements on our current and prior activities or operations and the imposition of regulations limiting our ability to distribute our products. Such actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions and could indirectly affect our business in other jurisdictions as well. Some of our foreign insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — International Regulation.”Part of our international insurance operations may be subject to assessments, generally based on their proportionate share of business written in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations to policyholders and claimants resulting from the insolvency of insurance companies. We cannot predict the timing and scope of any assessments that may be made in the future, which may materially affect the results of operations of our international insurance operations in particular quarterly or annual periods. See “Business — Regulation — International Regulation” in the 2015 Annual Report and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” as well as “Risk Factors — Regulatory and Legal Risks — Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth” in the 2015 Annual Report, as amended or supplemented by such information in the First Quarter 2016 Report and above.We have operations in regions where the legal and political systems and regulatory frameworks are subject to instability and disruptions. For example, instability has increased in many parts of the Middle East, as well as the U.K., China, Brazil, Turkey, Ukraine and Russia. Lack of legal certainty and stability in these regions exposes our operations there to increased risk of disruption and to adverse or unpredictable actions by regulators and may make it more difficult for us to enforce our contracts, which may negatively impact our business in these regions. 179Table of ContentsOn June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum regarding its membership in the EU, resulting in a narrow vote in favor of leaving the EU. While significant, this vote does not initiate the withdrawal process. The member withdrawal provisions in the applicable EU treaty have not been used before so it is unclear how the provisions will work in practice. Assuming the U.K. initiates the withdrawal process by giving notice that it is withdrawing from the EU, the relevant treaty provides that the U.K. and the EU will negotiate a withdrawal agreement during a maximum two-year period (unless such period is extended by unanimous vote of the other EU member states). It is currently anticipated that the withdrawal agreement would deal with the details of the immediate exit but would not set out final trade arrangements or deal comprehensively with other potentially significant matters. Upon effectiveness of the withdrawal agreement, or, if no agreement is concluded in the two-year period, at the end of the period, the U.K. will no longer be a member of the EU. In the meantime, however, the U.K. remains a member of the EU with unchanged rights to access the single EU market in goods and services. Our U.K. business model utilizes certain rights to operate cross-border insurance and investment operations which may be modified or eliminated as a result of the U.K. exiting the EU. Operating expenses within our businesses could increase as a result of uncertainties during the negotiation period and in the event of an eventual U.K. withdrawal.We have market presence in numerous countries and increased exposure to risks posed by local and regional economic conditions. China, Europe and Japan continue to experience overall sluggish economic performance, with concerns over low inflation. We face substantial exposure to the Japanese economy given our operations there. Unfavorable economic conditions in Japan, as well as in China and Europe, could adversely impact the demand for our products, negatively impact earnings, adversely affect the performance of our investments or result in impairments, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See “— Economic Environment and Capital Markets-Related Risks — If Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally Persist, They May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations.” Certain EU member states, including Europe’s perimeter region, have been particularly affected by the sluggish economy, resulting in increased national debts and depressed economic activity. We have significant operations and investments in certain of these countries, including Europe’s perimeter region, which could be adversely affected by economic developments such as higher taxes, growing inflation, deflation, decreasing government spending, rising unemployment and currency instability. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — Current Environment,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Financial and Economic Environment,” as well as “Risk Factors — Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability,” in the 2015 Annual Report.Furthermore, we rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter labor problems resulting from workers’ associations and trade unions in some countries. If our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training the sales force in that country.We are continuing to expand our international operations in certain markets where we operate and in selected new markets. This may require considerable management time, as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. The prospects of our business also may be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to manage the growth of such international operations successfully. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing such future growth. Further, operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local political, economic and market conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations may be negatively impacted.Capital-Related RisksThe following updates and replaces the similarly named sections of the risk factor entitled “Regulatory Restrictions and Uncertainty and Restrictions Under the Terms of Certain of Our Securities May Prevent Us from Repurchasing Our Stock and Paying Dividends at the Level We Wish” included in the 2015 Annual Report. There have been no material changes to other sections of such risk factor, which include: “Regulatory Restrictions,” “ ‘Dividend Stopper’ Provisions in Our Preferred Stock and Junior Subordinated Debentures,” “Trigger Events for the Restrictions on the Payment of Dividends on Our Preferred Stock and Restrictions on the Payment of Interest on Our Junior Subordinated Debentures,” “Dividends on Our Preferred Stock Are Subject to Declaration by Our Board of Directors,” and “Optional Deferral of Interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures.”180Table of ContentsLegal and Regulatory Restrictions and Uncertainty and Restrictions Under the Terms of Certain of Our Securities May Prevent Us from Repurchasing Our Stock and Paying Dividends at the Level We Wish The declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by MetLife, Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. There is no requirement or assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends. If MetLife, Inc.’s designation as a non-bank SIFI is reinstated, we also may be subject to restrictions arising from Federal Reserve regulation, including capital planning and stress testing requirements. The capital requirements that will apply to non-bank SIFIs are unclear. Furthermore, if additional capital requirements are imposed on MetLife, Inc. as a G-SII, its ability to pay dividends could be reduced by any such additional capital requirements that might be imposed. See “Risk Factors — Regulatory and Legal Risks — Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth” included in the 2015 Annual Report, as amended or supplemented by such information in the First Quarter 2016 Report and above. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and repurchase our common stock is subject to restrictions arising from the terms of our preferred stock, junior subordinated debentures and trust securities, so called “dividend stopper” provisions, in situations where we may be experiencing financial stress. For purposes of this discussion, “junior subordinated debentures” are deemed to include MetLife’s Fixed-to-Floating Exchangeable Surplus Trust Securities, which are exchangeable for junior subordinated debentures, and which contain terms with the same substantive effects in this discussion as the terms of MetLife, Inc.’s junior subordinated debentures. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our preferred stock and interest on our junior subordinated debentures is also restricted by the terms of those securities. We may also be restricted from time to time in our ability to repurchase shares or to enter into share repurchase programs under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act. That rule requires, among other things, that we establish any share repurchase program in good faith at a time when we are not aware of any material non-public information in order for us to have an affirmative defense against accusations of insider trading. Therefore, we may be unable to repurchase shares or to enter into share repurchase programs during various periods of time, including periods of significant corporate reorganization such as a spin-off or a sale of a substantial portion of the Company. General Risks The following updates and replaces in its entirety the risk factor entitled “We May Be Unable to Attract and Retain Sales Representatives for Our Products” included in the 2015 Annual Report. We May Experience Difficulty in Marketing and Distributing Products Through Our Distribution ChannelsFollowing completion in July 2016 of the sale of MetLife’s U.S. Retail advisor force and certain assets associated with the MetLife Premier Client Group, including MetLife’s affiliated broker-dealer, MSI, we distribute our products through a variety of third-party distribution channels. We may periodically negotiate the terms of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. An interruption in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Distributors may elect to reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us, including for such reasons as adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. We are also at risk that key distribution partners may merge, change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, or terminate their distribution contracts with us, or that new distribution channels could emerge and adversely impact the effectiveness of our distribution efforts. An increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market products through these channels. Consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. When our products are distributed through unaffiliated firms, we may not be able to monitor or control the manner of their distribution despite our training and compliance programs. If our products are distributed by such firms in an inappropriate manner, or to customers for whom they are unsuitable, we may suffer reputational and other harm to our business.181Table of ContentsItem 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds