Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following should be read in conjunction with, and supplements and amends, the factors that may affect the Company’s business or operations described under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, of the 2016 Annual Report, as amended or supplemented by the information under “Risk Factors” in Part II, Item 1A, of MetLife, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 (the “First Quarter 2017 Report”). Other than as described in this Item 1A, there have been no other material changes to our risk factors from the risk factors previously disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report as amended or supplemented by such information in the First Quarter 2017 Report.Regulatory and Legal RisksThe following updates and replaces the similar paragraphs of similarly named sections of the risk factors entitled “Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth” included in the 2016 Annual Report, as amended or supplemented by such information in the First Quarter 2017 Report.Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth * * *U.S. Regulation* * * Potential Regulation of MetLife, Inc. as a Non-Bank SIFISee “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Executive Summary — Other Key Information — Significant Events — Non-Bank SIFI” for recent developments concerning FSOC’s appeal of the D.C. District Court’s order that the designation of MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI by the FSOC be rescinded.Risks Related to Our Planned Separation from, and Continuing Relationship with, BrighthouseWe May Not Achieve Expected Benefits of the Separation and Will Have Equity Market Exposure to Brighthouse We believe that the planned Separation will allow us and Brighthouse to pursue distinct strategies appropriate to our respective markets. However, there can be no assurance that we will realize any or all of the expected strategic, financial, operational or other benefits of the Separation. Completion of the Separation will require significant attention from management which may divert attention from operating and growing our remaining businesses, and regulatory or other conditions may adversely affect our ability to operate with greater focus. After the Separation, shares of our common stock will represent an investment in a company different in size and characteristics from the present, which may cause some existing shareholders to sell their shares of our common stock, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease. A failure to realize expected benefits of the Separation could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, following the Separation we will have a significant equity ownership position in Brighthouse, and changes in the market price of Brighthouse common stock may have a material impact on us. We May be Subject to Claims by Plaintiffs in the Event that Brighthouse is Not Successful as a Standalone Entity Following the Separation, we cannot guarantee that Brighthouse will be successful as a standalone entity. In the event that Brighthouse is not successful, it is possible that plaintiffs could assert a variety of claims against us. Depending on their nature and number, such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.182Table of ContentsWe Could be Exposed to Claims from Brighthouse or Third Parties Under Our Agreements with Brighthouse or OtherwiseWe have entered into, and expect to enter into additional agreements with Brighthouse and its subsidiaries, including among others a master separation agreement, registration rights agreement, transition services agreement, investment management agreements, investment finance services agreements, tax receivables agreement, tax separation agreement and intellectual property license agreement. Our agreements with Brighthouse or its subsidiaries may not reflect terms that would have resulted from negotiations between unaffiliated parties and, in certain instances, will or are expected to relate to the continuation of certain business arrangements among us and Brighthouse in existence prior to the Separation. Such provisions may include, among other things, indemnification rights and obligations, the allocations of assets and liabilities, payment obligations and other obligations between us and Brighthouse. There can be no assurance that any remedies available under these arrangements will be sufficient to us in the event of a dispute or non-performance. In addition, there can be no assurance that the attention we must pay, and resources we must devote, to our obligations under one or more of these agreements, or the results of any failure to perform those obligations, or claim by Brighthouse that we have failed to perform those obligations, will not have a material impact on our own business performance.Under the master separation agreement, Brighthouse will agree to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for such liabilities and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from Brighthouse will be sufficient to fully protect us from such liabilities. Additionally, under the tax separation agreement, Brighthouse could be required, under certain circumstances, to indemnify us against certain tax-related liabilities to the extent those liabilities result from an action or breach of the tax separation agreement by Brighthouse. Brighthouse may be unable to satisfy or have an adverse interpretation of or object to its indemnification obligations to us under one or more of these agreements and the underlying liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The transition services agreement provides for the performance of certain services by each of MetLife and Brighthouse, or their respective subsidiaries, for the benefit of the other. The investment management agreements and investment finance services agreements provide for the performance by us of certain services for Brighthouse, through and following the Separation. Further, under the tax receivables agreement, Brighthouse is expected to pay us certain tax benefits it realizes as a result of certain transactions involved in the Separation. We will rely on Brighthouse to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these and all other agreements entered into in connection with the Separation. If Brighthouse fails to satisfy such obligations it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Brighthouse 2027 Senior Notes and 2047 Senior Notes Will Be Subject to a Special Mandatory Redemption if a Brighthouse Stock Distribution Event Does Not Occur on or Prior to December 31, 2017On June 22, 2017, Brighthouse issued $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.700% Senior Notes due 2027 and $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.700% Senior Notes due 2047 (collectively, the “2027 Senior Notes and 2047 Senior Notes”), for which a significant portion of the proceeds will be used to make a distribution to MetLife as partial consideration for MetLife’s transfer of assets to Brighthouse in connection with the Separation. While we and Brighthouse expect to complete the Separation in the near future, and have announced a distribution date of August 4, 2017, unanticipated developments could delay, prevent or otherwise adversely affect the currently proposed distribution, including possible problems with the continuing validity of a ruling from the IRS and an opinion from MetLife’s tax advisor regarding certain U.S. federal income tax matters, and disruptions in the capital and financial markets. Therefore, we cannot assure that we will complete the Separation in the form, on the terms or on the timeline that we have announced, if at all. If a Brighthouse Stock Distribution Event (as defined below) has not occurred on or prior to December 31, 2017, Brighthouse will be required to redeem the 2027 Senior Notes and 2047 Senior Notes, in whole, at a redemption price equal to 101% of the then-outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 2027 Senior Notes and 2047 Senior Notes, together with accrued and unpaid interest on such notes from the issue date or the last date on which interest has been paid, as applicable, to, but excluding, the special mandatory redemption date. A “Brighthouse Stock Distribution Event” will occur upon completion of both (i) the contribution by MetLife of all of the voting common interests in Brighthouse Holdings, LLC, including but not limited to, its direct and indirect subsidiaries, Brighthouse Insurance, NELICO, Brighthouse Insurance NY and Brighthouse Reinsurance Company of Delaware, to Brighthouse and (ii) the consummation of the transfer by us of at least 80.1% of the shares of Brighthouse common stock to one or more persons, other than MetLife or any of our affiliates (excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, the MetLife Policyholder Trust), as part of the Separation through a spin-off to the holders of our common stock, a public offering of shares in an independent, publicly traded company, or a sale. 183Table of ContentsIf Brighthouse Is Unable to Redeem the 2027 Senior Notes and 2047 Senior Notes in the Event of a Special Mandatory Redemption, We May Have to Fund Any Guarantee of a Special Mandatory RedemptionThe net proceeds from the offering of the 2027 Senior Notes and 2047 Senior Notes were not placed into escrow and are available to Brighthouse for use without restriction of any kind, including to pay a dividend to us. Holders of notes do not have any security interest in such proceeds. Accordingly, Brighthouse will need to fund any special mandatory redemption using cash that it voluntarily retained or from other sources of liquidity (including drawings or indebtedness incurred under the Brighthouse credit facilities). In the event of a special mandatory redemption, there can be no assurances that Brighthouse will have sufficient funds to redeem any or all of the 2027 Senior Notes and 2047 Senior Notes. Brighthouse’s failure to redeem the 2027 Senior Notes and 2047 Senior Notes as will be required under the indenture governing the 2027 Senior Notes and 2047 Senior Notes would result in a default under the indenture, which could result in defaults under any other indebtedness outstanding at the time. In addition, Brighthouse’s ability to redeem or purchase the 2027 Senior Notes and 2047 Senior Notes for cash may be limited by the law or terms of other agreements relating to its other indebtedness outstanding at the time. While in the event of a special mandatory redemption, MetLife has guaranteed Brighthouse’s obligations to redeem the 2027 Senior Notes and 2047 Senior Notes, any net proceeds of the offering of the 2027 Senior Notes and 2047 Senior Notes that are used to pay a dividend to MetLife will not be available to us for use at any time without restriction. Accordingly, we will need to fund any guarantee of the special mandatory redemption using our cash on hand or other sources of liquidity.If the Spin-off Distribution Were to Fail to Qualify for Non-recognition Treatment for U.S. Federal Income Tax Purposes, Then We and Our Shareholders Could be Subject to Significant Tax LiabilitiesThe spin-off distribution is conditioned on the continued validity as of the distribution date of a private letter ruling that we have received from the IRS regarding certain significant issues under the Code, and continued validity of an opinion from tax counsel that the distribution will qualify for non-recognition of gain or loss to us and our shareholders pursuant to Sections 355 and 361 of the Code, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares, each subject to the accuracy of and compliance with certain representations, assumptions and covenants therein.Notwithstanding the receipt of the private letter ruling and the tax opinion, the IRS could determine that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction, for example, if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or covenants on which the private letter ruling is based are untrue or have been violated. Furthermore, as part of the IRS’s policy, the IRS did not determine whether the distribution satisfies certain conditions that are necessary to qualify for non-recognition treatment. Rather, the private letter ruling is based on representations by us and Brighthouse that these conditions have been satisfied. The tax opinion will address the satisfaction of these conditions.The tax opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or a court will not take a contrary position. In addition, the tax counsel will rely on certain representations and covenants to be delivered by us and Brighthouse. If the IRS ultimately determines that the distribution is taxable, the distribution could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain to MetLife shareholders receiving shares of Brighthouse stock in the distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and such shareholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. In addition, if the IRS ultimately determines that the distribution is taxable, we and Brighthouse could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities, and either we or Brighthouse could have an indemnification obligation to the other, depending on the circumstances. We Intend to Agree to Certain Restrictions to Preserve the Non-recognition Tax Treatment of the Transactions, Which May Reduce Our Strategic and Operating FlexibilityEven if the spin-off distribution otherwise qualifies for non-recognition of gain or loss under Section 355 of the Code, it may be taxable to us, but not our shareholders, under Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more (by vote or value) of our common stock or Brighthouse’s common stock is acquired as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the distribution. For this purpose, any acquisitions of our or Brighthouse’ s common stock within two years before or after the distribution are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or Brighthouse may be able to rebut that presumption based on either applicable facts and circumstances or a “safe harbor” described in the tax regulations. Therefore, under the tax separation agreement with Brighthouse, we are restricted from certain activities and have indemnity obligations which may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business, and might discourage or delay a strategic transaction that our shareholders may consider favorable. Any payments required under these indemnity obligations could be significant and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 184Table of ContentsItem 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds