Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following should be read in conjunction with, and supplements and amends, the factors that may affect the Company’s business or operations described under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, of the 2016 Annual Report. Other than as described in this Item 1A, there have been no material changes to our risk factors from the risk factors previously disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report.Regulatory and Legal RisksThe following updates and replaces the similar paragraphs of similarly named sections of the risk factor entitled “Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth” included in the 2016 Annual Report. Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth * * *U.S. Regulation* * * ERISA Considerations* * *The DOL issued new regulations on April 6, 2016, which, in accordance with an April 4, 2017 DOL final rule which delayed the original applicable date by 60 days, will for the most part become applicable on June 9, 2017. These rules, when they become applicable, substantially expand the definition of “investment advice” and require that an impartial or “best interests” standard be met in providing such advice, thereby broadening the circumstances under which MetLife or its representatives, in providing investment advice with respect to ERISA plans, plan participants or IRAs, could be deemed a fiduciary under ERISA or the Code. Pursuant to the final regulations, certain communications with plans, plan participants and IRA holders, including the sales of products, and investment management or advisory services, could be deemed fiduciary investment advice, thus causing increased exposure to fiduciary liability if the distributor does not recommend what is in the client’s best interests. While the final regulations also provide that, to a limited extent, contracts sold and advice provided prior to the applicable date do not have to be modified to comply with the new investment advice regulations, there is lack of clarity surrounding some of the conditions for qualifying for this limited exception. There can be no assurance that the DOL will agree with our interpretation of the provisions of the new regulations, in which case the DOL and IRS could assess significant penalties against a portion of products sold prior to the applicable date. The assessment of such penalties could also trigger substantial litigation risk. Any such penalties and related litigation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.The DOL also issued amendments to certain of its prohibited transaction exemptions, and issued a new exemption that applies more onerous disclosure and contract requirements to, and increases fiduciary requirements and fiduciary liability exposure in respect of, certain transactions involving ERISA plans, plan participants and IRAs. In general, the changes the rule made to existing prohibited transaction exemptions and contract and disclosure requirements of the new exemption (other than the impartial interest standard) were delayed until January 1, 2018. On February 3, 2017 President Trump, in a memorandum to the Secretary of Labor, requested that the DOL prepare an updated economic and legal analysis concerning the likely impact of the new rules, and possible revisions to the rules. The applicable date for the new rules could be further extended to provide the DOL with additional time to address the requests in the President’s memorandum.158Table of ContentsWhile we continue to analyze the impact of the final regulations on our business as we plan for their implementation, we believe they could have an adverse effect on sales of annuity products to ERISA qualified plans such as IRAs through our independent distribution partners. The new regulations deem advisors, including independent distributors, who sell fixed index-linked annuities to IRAs, IRA rollovers or 401(k) plans, fiduciaries and prohibit them from receiving compensation unless they comply with a prohibited transaction exemption. The exemption requires advisors to comply with impartial conduct standards and may require us to exercise additional oversight of the sales process. Compliance with the prohibited transaction exemption will likely result in increased regulatory burdens on us and our independent distribution partners, changes to our compensation practices and product offerings and increased litigation risk, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — U.S. Regulation — ERISA Considerations,” as well as “Business — Regulation — U.S. Regulation — ERISA Considerations” included in the 2016 Annual Report.The change of administration and DOL officials leaves uncertainty over whether the regulations will be substantially modified or repealed. Application of the rules on June 9, 2017, in light of the overall reconsideration of the rules requested by President Trump, could create confusion among our distribution partners which could negatively impact product sales. We cannot predict what other proposals may be made, what legislation may be introduced or enacted, or what impact any such legislation may have on our business, results of operations and financial condition.* * *Risks Related to Our BusinessThe following updates and replaces the similar paragraphs in the risk factor entitled “Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability” included in the 2016 Annual Report.Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability* * * The Trump Administration has discussed potentially putting in place a tax on goods and services imported into the United States, including from countries in which we have international operations, such as Mexico. President Trump has indicated an interest in renegotiating NAFTA, which had eliminated most trade tariffs between the United States, Canada and Mexico. While our current business in Mexico is not directly dependent upon any specific trade agreement provision, and is tied to the general economy and the growth of the market, if the current rules on government procurement under NAFTA were modified or eliminated, it could have a material impact on our business in Mexico, given our business model. We cannot predict with certainty what proposals may be made in connection with international trade agreements or what legislation or regulations may be introduced or enacted, or what impact any such legislation or regulations may have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. * * * On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum regarding its membership in the EU, resulting in a vote in favor of leaving the EU. The U.K. government triggered the withdrawal process by notifying the EU on March 29, 2017 of the U.K.’s intention to withdraw from the EU. The member withdrawal provisions in the applicable EU treaty have not been used before so it is unclear how the provisions will work in practice. This treaty provides that the U.K. and the EU will negotiate a withdrawal agreement during a maximum two-year period (unless such period is extended by unanimous vote of the EU member states). It is possible that the withdrawal agreement would deal with the details of the immediate exit but would not set out final trade arrangements or deal comprehensively with other potentially significant matters. The U.K. Parliament approved Prime Minister Theresa May's plan to hold an early general election on June 8, 2017, the results of which may affect the U.K. strategy for its withdrawal from the EU. With effectiveness of the withdrawal agreement, or, if no agreement is concluded in the two-year period, at the end of the period on March 29, 2019, the U.K. will no longer be a member of the EU. It is likely, however, that a transitional period or implementation phase will be discussed during the negotiations. In the meantime, the U.K. remains a member of the EU with unchanged rights to access the single EU market in goods and services. Our U.K. business model utilizes certain rights to operate cross-border insurance and investment operations which may be modified or eliminated as a result of the U.K. exiting the EU. Operating expenses within our businesses could increase as a result of uncertainties during the negotiation period and upon the U.K.’s withdrawal.* * * 159Table of ContentsItem 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds