Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following should be read in conjunction with, and supplements and amends, the factors that may affect the Company’s business or operations described under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, of the 2017 Annual Report, as amended or supplemented in our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q under Item 1A. Risk Factors. Other than as so amended or supplemented and as described in this Item 1A, there have been no other material changes to our risk factors from the risk factors previously disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report.Risks Related to the Material Weaknesses The following updates and replaces the similar paragraph of the risk factor entitled “We Have Identified Material Weaknesses in Our Internal Control over Financial Reporting, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business, Reputation, Results of Operations and Stock Price” included in the 2017 Annual Report.We Have Identified Material Weaknesses in Our Internal Control over Financial Reporting, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business, Reputation, Results of Operations and Stock Price* * *Our practices and procedures are evaluated periodically and from time to time may limit our efforts to contact all of our customers, which may result in delayed, untimely, or missed customer payments that may have a material adverse effect on the Company, including reputational harm. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will not identify additional control deficiencies or material weaknesses in the future. If we identify future control deficiencies or material weaknesses, these may lead to additional adverse effects on our business, our reputation, our results of operations, and the market price of our common stock.Regulatory and Legal RisksThe following updates and replaces the similar paragraphs of similarly named sections of the risk factor entitled “Our Insurance, Pensions and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth” included in the 2017 Annual Report.Our Insurance, Pensions and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth* * *U.S. Regulation* * * ERISA and Fiduciary Considerations* * *The DOL issued regulations, which became for the most part applicable on June 9, 2017, before the regulations were formally vacated by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit when it issued its mandate on June 21, 2018. While the regulations were applicable, they substantially expanded the definition of “investment advice” and required an advisor to meet an impartial or “best interests” standard. This broadened the circumstances under which MetLife or its representatives, in providing investment advice with respect to ERISA plans, plan participants or IRAs, could be deemed a fiduciary under ERISA or the Code. The Court of Appeals also vacated the DOL amendments to certain of its prohibited transaction exemptions, and a new exemption that applied more onerous disclosure and contract requirements to, and increased fiduciary requirements and fiduciary liability exposure in respect of, certain transactions involving ERISA plans, plan participants and IRAs. 185Table of ContentsFurther, on November 24, 2017 the NAIC issued an exposure draft of an expanded Suitability in Annuity Transactions Model Regulation, intended to result in the adoption of a “best interest” standard on a nationwide basis. In addition, on July 22, 2018, the NYDFS issued the final version of Insurance Regulation 187, which takes effect on August 1, 2019 and incorporates the “best interest” standard, as well as expands the scope of the regulations to include sales of life insurance policies and annuities to consumers. In addition, Insurance Regulation 187 may result in additional requirements on insurers and agents concerning both new and in-force annuity and life insurance products. We cannot be certain what impact the NAIC model regulation or Insurance Regulation 187 may have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Separately, on April 18, 2018, the SEC proposed and opened for a 90-day public comment Regulation Best Interest, which would require broker-dealers to act in the best interest of “retail” customers, including participants in ERISA-covered plans and IRAs, when making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving securities. We cannot predict what other proposals regulators may make or regulations they may adopt on these subjects, what legislation lawmakers may introduce or enact on these subjects, or what impact any such legislation or regulations may have on our business, product sales, results of operations and financial condition. For more information on the DOL regulations and related regulatory developments regarding the “best interest” standard, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Developments — U.S. Regulation — ERISA and Fiduciary Considerations,” as well as “Business — Regulation — U.S. Regulation — ERISA and Fiduciary Considerations” included in the 2017 Annual Report.* * *Risks Related to Our BusinessThe following updates and replaces the similar paragraph of the risk factor entitled “Differences Between Actual Claims Experience and Underwriting and Reserving Assumptions May Adversely Affect Our Financial Results” included in the 2017 Annual Report.Differences Between Actual Claims Experience and Underwriting and Reserving Assumptions May Adversely Affect Our Financial Results* * *Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. Such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. We evaluate our liabilities periodically based on accounting requirements, which change from time to time, the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual experience. Reserve estimates in some instances are affected by our operating practices and procedures that are used, among other things, to support our assumptions with respect to the Company’s obligations to its policyholders and contractholders. These practices and procedures include, among other things, obtaining, accumulating, and filtering data, and our use of technology, such as database analysis and electronic communications. To the extent that these practices and procedures do not accurately produce the data to support our assumptions or cause us to change our assumptions, or to the extent that enhanced technological tools become available to us, such assumptions and procedures, as well as our reserves, may require adjustment. Furthermore, to the extent that any of our operating practices and procedures do not accurately produce, or reproduce, data that we use to conduct any or all aspects of our business, such errors may negatively impact our business, reputation, results of operations, and financial condition. If the liabilities originally established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them and/or reduce associated DAC and/or VOBA. Such adjustments could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Policyholder Liabilities,” as well as “Business — Policyholder Liabilities” included in the 2017 Annual Report. See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates — Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates — Derivatives,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations — Consolidated Results — Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2016 — Actuarial Assumption Review” included in the 2017 Annual Report for further information regarding the manner in which policyholder behavior and other events may differ from our assumptions and, thereby affect our financial results.186Table of ContentsItem 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds