Item 1A. Risk Factors.   In addition to the risk factors relating to M&T that were disclosed in response to Item 1A. to Part I of Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, the following additional risk factors exist specifically relating to the impact of the Wilmington Trust acquisition:   (a) The merger of M&T and Wilmington Trust and the integration of the companies may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees or disruption of ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect M&T’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the  - 102 -    Table of Contents  anticipated benefits of the merger. As with any merger of banking institutions, there also may be business disruptions that cause M&T to lose customers or cause customers to withdraw their deposits from M&T’s banking subsidiaries. The success of the combined company following the merger may depend in large part on the ability to integrate the two business models and cultures. If M&T is not able to successfully integrate operations associated with the Wilmington Trust acquisition, the expected benefits of the merger may not be realized.   (b) M&T may fail to realize the cost savings estimated for the merger. M&T estimates that it will achieve cost savings from the merger when the two companies have been fully integrated. While M&T continues to be comfortable with these expectations, it is possible that the estimates of the potential cost savings could turn out to be incorrect. The cost savings estimates also assume the ability to combine the businesses of M&T and Wilmington Trust in a manner that permits those cost savings to be realized. If the estimates turn out to be incorrect or M&T is not able to successfully combine the two companies, the anticipated cost saving may not be fully realized or realized at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.     Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.