ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following is a description of significant factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Such factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and you should carefully consider them. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you -22-should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all our potential risks or uncertainties. Because of these and other factors, past performance should not be considered an indication of future performance.Federal Health Care Reform, together with the changes in federal and state regulations that have been, and continue to be, enacted to implement it, could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. The passage of Health Care Reform during 2010 and subsequent regulations represent significant changes to the U.S. health care system. The legislation and regulations are far-reaching and are intended to expand access to health insurance coverage over time by mandating that most individuals obtain health insurance coverage, increasing the eligibility thresholds for most state Medicaid programs and providing certain other individuals and small businesses with tax credits to subsidize a portion of the cost of health insurance coverage. In addition, the new laws impose significant fees, assessments and taxes on us and other health insurers, health plans and other industry participants. Health Care Reform imposes an annual industry-wide HIP Fee. The total amount collected from allocations to health insurers in 2015 and 2014 was $11.3 billion and $8.0 billion, respectively and our portion of the HIP Fee for 2015 and 2014 was $1.2 billion and $0.9 billion, respectively. The annual HIP Fee remains at $11.3 billion for 2016, has been suspended for 2017 and will resume and be increased to $14.3 billion for 2018, with annual adjustments thereafter. The HIP Fee is not deductible for income tax purposes and is allocated pro rata among us and other industry participants based on net premiums written. Health Care Reform also imposes industry-wide reinsurance assessments under a temporary three year program which were $8.0 billion and $12.0 billion for 2015 and 2014, respectively, and decrease to $5.0 billion for 2016. The reinsurance assessments are based on an insurer’s total number of insured members. Insurance companies will pay the fees based upon insured members whereas self-insured entities will pay them directly to HHS. As we are one of the nation's largest health benefits companies, we expect our share of the Health Care Reform fees, assessments and taxes will continue to be significant. We may not be able to include or recoup all or a portion of these fees, assessments and taxes in our premium or public program rates.Health Care Reform also imposes new regulations on the health insurance sector, including, but not limited to, guaranteed coverage and expanded benefit requirements; prohibitions on some annual and all lifetime limits on amounts paid on behalf of or to our members; increased restrictions on rescinding coverage; establishment of minimum MLR and customer rebate requirements; creation of a federal rate review process; a requirement to cover preventive services on a first dollar basis; the establishment of public exchanges and essential benefit packages and greater limitations on how we price certain of our products. In addition, the legislation reduces the reimbursement levels for our health plans participating in the Medicare Advantage program over time and limits the amount of executive compensation that is deductible for income tax purposes. The legislation also contains risk adjustment provisions applicable to the Individual and Small Group markets that effectively transfer funds from health plans with relatively lower risk enrollees to plans with relatively higher risk enrollees to help protect against adverse selection. Effectively adapting to these risk adjustment provisions has required us to modify our operational and strategic initiatives to focus on and manage different populations of potential members than we have in the past. If we are not able to successfully design and implement operational and strategic initiatives to adapt to these changes in certain of our markets, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Further, the Health Care Reform Premium Stabilization programs may not make payments timely, or as expected, due to lower than anticipated collections. For example, in 2015, the risk corridor program fell short of expectations and, as a result, the payments from the program were approximately 12.6% of the amount that was requested by health insurance issuers. Although the majority of Health Care Reform’s provisions have been implemented, as the remaining provisions are phased in, we could be impacted through potential disruption to the employer-based market, potential cost shifting in the health care delivery system to insurance companies and limitations on the ability to increase premiums to meet costs. We have dedicated material resources and incurred material expenses to implement and comply with Health Care Reform at both the state and federal levels, and we expect to dedicate material resources and incur material expenses going forward to implement and comply with future regulations that provide guidance and clarification on significant portions of the legislation. The Health Care Reform law and regulations are likely to have significant effects on our future operations, which, in turn, could impact the value of our business model and results of operations, including potential impairments of our goodwill and other intangible assets. -23-Finally, federal and state regulatory agencies may further restrict our ability to obtain new product approvals, implement changes in premium rates or impose additional restrictions, under new or existing laws that could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to significant government regulation, and changes in the regulation of our business by state and federal regulators may adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.Our business is subject to regulation at the state and federal level. In addition to Health Care Reform, we face regulation associated with many aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, licensing, premiums, marketing activities, provider contracting, access and payment standards, and corporate governance and financial reporting matters. Our insurance, managed health care and HMO subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by regulatory authorities in each state in which they are licensed or authorized to do business, in addition to regulation by federal agencies. Future regulatory action by state or federal authorities could have a material adverse effect on the profitability or marketability of our health benefits or managed care products or on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, because of our participation in government-sponsored programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, a number of our subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by CMS and state Medicaid agencies, and to changes in government regulations or policy with respect to, among other things, reimbursement levels, eligibility requirements, benefit coverage requirements and additional governmental participation which could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in tax laws and regulations, or changes in the interpretation of tax laws and regulations by federal and/or state authorities may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. State legislatures will continue to focus on health care delivery and financing issues. Such issues are sometimes addressed directly by voters in ballot initiatives, such as the upcoming ballot initiative in Colorado that would replace health insurers in the state with a single government payer. Most states are very focused on how to manage and reduce their budgets and are exploring ways to mitigate cost increases. As such, some states have acted to reduce or limit increases to premium payments. Others have enacted, or are contemplating enacting, significant reform of their health insurance markets to include provisions affecting both public programs and privately-financed health insurance arrangements. If enacted into law, these state proposals could have a material adverse impact on our business, cash flows, operations or financial condition. The existence of multiple public insurance exchange options has led to increased uncertainties and made our planning for the public exchanges more difficult as we are required to comply with the varying rules of multiple exchanges. In addition, a number of states in which we offer Medicaid products, including Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Louisiana, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and Wisconsin, have indicated their current decision to opt out of Medicaid expansion, at least for the present time. If states allow certain programs to expire or choose to opt out of Medicaid expansion, we could experience reduced Medicaid enrollment and reduced growth opportunities.Additionally, from time to time, Congress has considered, and may consider in the future, various forms of managed care reform legislation which, if adopted, could fundamentally alter the treatment of coverage decisions under ERISA. There have been legislative attempts to limit ERISA’s preemptive effect on state laws and litigants’ ability to seek damages beyond the benefits offered under their plans. If adopted, such limitations could increase our liability exposure, could permit greater state regulation of our operations, and could expand the scope of damages, including punitive damages, litigants could be awarded. While we cannot predict if any of these initiatives will ultimately become effective or, if enacted, what their terms will be, their enactment could increase our costs, expose us to expanded liability or require us to revise the ways in which we conduct business. Our inability to contain health care costs, implement increases in premium rates on a timely basis, maintain adequate reserves for policy benefits or maintain cost effective provider agreements may adversely affect our business and profitability. Our profitability depends in large part on accurately predicting health care costs and on our ability to manage future health care costs through medical management, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and underwriting criteria. Government-imposed limitations on Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement have also caused the private sector to bear a greater share of increasing health care costs. Changes in health care practices, demographic characteristics, inflation, -24-new technologies, the cost of prescription drugs, clusters of high cost cases, changes in the regulatory environment and numerous other factors affecting the cost of health care may adversely affect our ability to predict and manage health care costs, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Relatively small differences between predicted and actual health care costs as a percentage of premium revenues can result in significant changes in our results of operations, particularly with respect to our products sold through the public exchanges, as we and our competitors have limited experience with pricing such products or the utilization rates for medical or other covered services by members who purchase our products through such exchanges. The public exchanges may increase the risk that our products will be selected by individuals who have a higher risk profile or utilization rate than the pool of participants we anticipated when we established the pricing for these public exchange products. Health care benefit costs in excess of our cost projections reflected in our public exchange product pricing cannot be recovered in the current premium period through higher premiums. Although federal risk adjustment mechanisms, including risk adjustment payments, risk corridors and reinsurance, could help offset health care benefit costs in excess of our projections if our assumptions regarding cost trends, utilization, enrollment, adverse selection, acuity and other assumptions utilized in setting our premium rates are significantly different than actual results, our income statement and financial position could be adversely affected. In addition to the challenge of managing health care costs, we face pressure to contain premium rates. Our customers may renegotiate their contracts to seek to contain their costs or may move to a competitor to obtain more favorable premiums. Further, federal and state regulatory agencies may restrict our ability to implement changes in premium rates. For example, the ACA includes an annual rate review requirement to prohibit unreasonable rate increases, and our plans may be excluded from participating in the public exchanges if they are deemed to have a history of “unreasonable” rate increases. Fiscal concerns regarding the continued viability of programs such as Medicare and Medicaid may cause decreasing reimbursement rates, delays in premium payments or a lack of sufficient increase in reimbursement rates for government-sponsored programs in which we participate. A limitation on our ability to increase or maintain our premium or reimbursement levels or a significant loss of membership resulting from our need to increase or maintain premium or reimbursement levels could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. The reserves that we establish for health insurance policy benefits and other contractual rights and benefits are based upon assumptions concerning a number of factors, including trends in health care costs, expenses, general economic conditions and other factors. To the extent the actual claims experience is less favorable than estimated based on our underlying assumptions, our incurred losses would increase and future earnings could be adversely affected. Our profitability is dependent in part upon our ability to contract on favorable terms with hospitals, physicians and other health care providers. The failure to maintain or to secure cost-effective health care provider contracts on competitive terms may result in a loss of membership or higher medical costs, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, ACO practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, and other organizational structures that physicians, hospitals and other care providers choose may change the way that these providers interact with us and may change the competitive landscape. Such organizations or groups of physicians may compete directly with us, which may impact our relationship with these providers or affect the way that we price our products and estimate our costs and may require us to incur costs to change our operations, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flow could be adversely affected. Further, our inability to contract with providers, or if providers attempt to use their market position to negotiate more favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, or the inability of providers to provide adequate care, could adversely affect our business. In addition, we do not have contracts with all providers that render services to our members and, as a result, do not have a pre-established agreement about the amount of compensation those out-of-network providers will accept for the services they render, which can result in significant litigation or arbitration proceedings. A significant reduction in the enrollment in our health benefits programs could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. A significant reduction in the number of enrollees in our health benefits programs could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could contribute to a reduction in enrollment include: reductions in workforce by existing customers; general economic downturn that results in business failures and high unemployment rates; employers no longer offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or electing to offer this coverage on a -25-voluntary, employee-funded basis; participation on public exchanges and related underwriting changes; state and federal regulatory changes; failure to obtain new customers or retain existing customers; premium increases and benefit changes; our exit from a specific market; negative publicity and news coverage; and failure to attain or maintain nationally recognized accreditations. There are various risks associated with participating in Medicaid and Medicare programs, including dependence upon government funding and the timing of payments, compliance with government contracts and increased regulatory oversight. We contract with various state and federal agencies, including CMS, to provide managed health care services, including Medicare Advantage plans, Medicare Supplement plans, Medicare approved prescription drug plans, Medicaid, TANF, SPD, LTSS, CHIP and ACA-related Medicaid expansion programs. We also provide various administrative services for several other entities offering medical and/or prescription drug plans to their Medicare eligible members through our affiliated companies and we offer employer group waiver plans which provide medical and/or prescription drug coverage to retirees. We are also participating in Medicare and Medicaid dual eligible programs in several states. These programs in our Government Business segment have been the subject of recent regulatory reform initiatives, including Health Care Reform, which are still in the process of being implemented. It is difficult to predict the future impact of Health Care Reform on our Government Business segment due to Health Care Reform’s complexity, gradual implementation, and possible amendment. Changes in Health Care Reform to date have required us to make investments in new products, services and technologies, which investments may not be realized if certain provisions are delayed or substantially modified. Health Care Reform, other regulatory reform initiatives or additional changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. Revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs are dependent, in whole or in part, upon annual funding from the federal government and/or applicable state governments. The base premium rate paid by each state or federal agency differs depending upon a combination of various factors such as defined upper payment limits, a member’s health status, age, gender, county or region, benefit mix, member eligibility category and risk scores. Future levels of Medicare and Medicaid rates may be affected by continued government efforts to contain costs and may be further affected by state and federal budgetary constraints. If the federal government or any state in which we operate were to decrease rates paid to us, pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends or seek an adjustment to previously negotiated rates, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, certain of our contracts with the states are subject to cancellation in the event of the unavailability of state funds. In addition, the various states’ new Medicare and Medicaid dual eligible programs are still subject to uncertainty surrounding payment rates and other requirements, which could affect where we seek to participate in these new programs. An unexpected reduction, inadequate government funding or significantly delayed payments for these programs may adversely affect our revenues, cash flow and financial results. A portion of our premium revenue comes from CMS through our Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D contracts. As a consequence, our Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D plans are dependent on federal government funding levels. The premium rates paid to Medicare plans are established based on benchmarks which are now tied to a percentage of Medicare fee for service, although the rates differ depending on a combination of factors, including upper payment limits established by CMS, a member’s health profile and status, age, gender, county or region, benefit mix, member eligibility categories and risk scores. Beginning in 2014, Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D plans became subject to MLR rules. Continuing government efforts to contain health care related expenditures, including prescription drug cost, and other federal budgetary constraints that result in changes in the Medicare program, including changes with respect to funding, could lead to reductions in the amount of reimbursement, or other changes that could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. Risks associated with the Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D plans include potential uncollectability of receivables resulting from processing and/or verifying enrollment, inadequacy of underwriting assumptions, inability to receive and process correct information (including inability due to systems issues by the federal government, the applicable state government or us), uncollectability of premiums from members, increased medical or pharmaceutical costs, overpayments identified as a result of ongoing auditing and monitoring activities, and the limited enrollment periods in this business. While we believe we have adequately reviewed our assumptions and estimates regarding these complex and wide-ranging programs under Medicare Parts C and D, including those related to collectability of receivables and establishment of liabilities, the actual results may be materially different than our assumptions and estimates and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is also -26-the possibility that Medicare Advantage Special Needs plans will not be re-authorized by Congress. Without Congressional action, these plans will expire on December 31, 2016. If the Special Needs plans are not re-authorized, there could be a loss of revenue and it would become more difficult to coordinate Medicare benefits with other coverage. The ACA also established recovery audit programs for Medicare Parts C and D. The Medicare Part D Recovery Audit Contractor, or RAC, has been auditing Medicare Part D claims since 2012, and a Medicare Part C RAC is expected to be named in 2016, which could increase the volume of audits and subsequent recoupments by the federal government.The ACA authorized state Medicaid programs to implement RAC programs similar to Medicare RAC programs and a number of states have done so. State RAC programs could increase the amount of audits and any subsequent recoupment by the federal and state governments, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of our operations.Our contracts with the various state governmental agencies and CMS contain certain provisions regarding data submission, provider network maintenance, quality measures, claims payment, continuity of care, call center performance and other requirements specific to state and federal program regulations. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to fines, penalties, liquidated damages and retrospective adjustments in payments made to our health plans, that could impact our profitability. Additionally, we could be required to file a corrective plan of action with additional penalties for noncompliance, including a negative impact on future membership enrollment levels. Further, certain of our CMS and state Medicaid contracts are subject to a competitive procurement process, and if our existing contracts are not renewed or if we are not awarded new contracts as a result of this competitive procurement process, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the contractual requirements affecting our participation in Medicaid and Medicare programs, we are also subject to various state and federal health care laws and regulations, including those directed at preventing fraud and abuse in government funded programs. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in investigations or litigation, with the imposition of fines, restrictions or exclusions from program participation or the imposition of corporate integrity agreements or other agreements with a federal or state governmental agency that could adversely impact our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. CMS has been conducting audits of our Medicare Advantage health plans to validate the diagnostic data and patient claims that are submitted to CMS and the Medicare Part D RAC has been conducting audits of our Medicare Part D plans. These audits may result in retrospective adjustments in payments made to our health plans. In addition, if we fail to report and correct errors discovered through our own auditing procedures or during a CMS or RAC audit, or otherwise fail to comply with the applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to fines, civil penalties or other sanctions which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to participate in these programs, and on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, there are an increasing number of investigations regarding compliance with various provisions of the ACA. These investigations are being conducted by both CMS and state regulators. As a result, we could be subject to multiple investigations of the same issue. These investigations, and any possible enforcement actions, could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practices, which could adversely affect our ability to market our products. We may not complete the acquisition of Cigna within the time frame we anticipate or at all, which could have a negative effect on our business or our results of operations.On July 23, 2015, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or Merger Agreement, under which we will acquire all of the outstanding shares of Cigna. The acquisition is subject to a number of closing conditions, such as antitrust and other regulatory approvals, which may not be received or may take longer than expected. The acquisition is also subject to other risks and uncertainties, such as the possibility that Cigna could receive an unsolicited proposal from a third party or that either we or Cigna could exercise our respective termination rights. If the acquisition is not consummated within the expected time frame, or at all, it could have a negative effect on our ability to execute on our growth strategy or on our financial performance.-27- Failure to complete the acquisition could negatively impact our share price and future business, as well as our financial results.If the acquisition is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the acquisition, we could be subject to a number of risks, including the following: we may be required to pay Cigna a termination fee of $1.85 billion or an expense fee of up to $600 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances (as more fully described in the Merger Agreement); and we could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the acquisition or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against us to perform our obligations under the Merger Agreement. If the acquisition is not completed, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect our business, cash flows and financial condition.We may experience difficulties in integrating Cigna’s business and realizing the expected benefits of the proposed acquisition.The success of the Cigna acquisition, if completed, will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities and growth prospects from combining our businesses with those of Cigna. We may never realize these business opportunities and growth prospects. Integrating operations will be complex and will require significant efforts and expenditures on the part of both us and Cigna. Our management might have its attention diverted while trying to integrate operations and corporate and administrative infrastructures. We might experience increased competition that limits our ability to expand our business, and we might fail to capitalize on expected business opportunities, including retaining current customers.The integration process could result in a disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses, tax costs or inefficiencies, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, information technology systems, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, employees or other third parties or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Cigna acquisition and could harm our financial performance.If we are unable to successfully or timely integrate the operations of Cigna’s business into our business, we may be unable to realize the revenue growth, synergies and other anticipated benefits resulting from the proposed acquisition and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Even if we complete the Cigna acquisition, the acquired business may underperform relative to our expectations.The health benefits industry is subject to negative publicity, which could adversely affect our business and profitability. The health benefits industry is subject to negative publicity, which can arise from, among other things, the ongoing debate over Health Care Reform. Negative publicity may result in increased regulation and legislative review of industry practices, which may further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by: adversely affecting our ability to market our products and services; requiring us to change our products and services; or increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate. In addition, as long as we use the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks in marketing our health benefits products and services, any negative publicity concerning the BCBSA or other BCBSA licensees may adversely affect us and the sale of our health benefits products and services. Any such negative publicity could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We face competition in many of our markets and customers and brokers have flexibility in moving between competitors. As a health benefits company, we operate in a highly competitive environment and in an industry that is currently subject to significant changes from legislative reform, business consolidations, new strategic alliances, aggressive marketing practices by other health benefits organizations and market pressures brought about by an informed and organized customer base, particularly among large employers. For example, we began to compete for sales on public exchanges in 2014, which has required, and will continue to require, us to develop or acquire the tools (including social media tools) necessary to interact with the exchanges and with consumers using the exchanges, increase our focus on individual customers and improve -28-our consumer-focused sales and marketing, customer interfaces and product offerings. These factors have produced and will likely continue to produce significant pressures on our profitability. We also will have to respond to pricing and other actions taken by existing competitors and potentially disruptive new entrants. Due to the price transparency provided by public exchanges, in the market for individual health insurance we face competitive pressures from new and existing competitors. These risks may be enhanced if employers shift to defined contribution health care benefits plans and make greater utilization of private insurance exchanges or encourage their employees to purchase health insurance on the public exchanges. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully on these public exchanges or that we will be able to benefit from any opportunities presented by such exchanges. If we are not competitive on these public exchanges or are unsuccessful in reducing our cost structure, our future growth and profitability may be adversely impacted. We are currently dependent on the non-exclusive services of independent agents and brokers in the marketing of our health care products, particularly with respect to individuals, seniors and small employer group customers. We face intense competition for the services and allegiance of these independent agents and brokers, who may also market the products of our competitors. Our relationship with our brokers and independent agents could be adversely impacted by changes in our business practices to address Health Care Reform legislation, including potential reductions in commissions and consulting fees paid to agents and brokers. We cannot ensure that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us will not materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We face intense competition to attract and retain employees. Further, managing key executive succession and retention is critical to our success. We are dependent on retaining existing employees, attracting additional qualified employees to meet current and future needs and achieving productivity gains from our investment in technology. We face intense competition for qualified employees, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such employees or that such competition among potential employers will not result in increasing salaries. An inability to retain existing employees or attract additional employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for succession of our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and other senior management and retention of key executives. While we have succession plans in place for members of our senior management, and continue to review and update those plans, and we have employment arrangements with certain key executives, these plans and arrangements do not guarantee that the services of our senior executives will continue to be available to us or that we will be able to attract and retain suitable successors. A change in our health care product mix may impact our profitability. Our health care products that involve greater potential risk generally tend to be more profitable than administrative services products and those health care products where the employer groups assume the underwriting risks. Individuals and small employer groups are more likely to purchase our higher-risk health care products because such purchasers are generally unable or unwilling to bear greater liability for health care expenditures. Typically, government-sponsored programs also involve our higher-risk health care products. It is not yet clear whether our products sold on the public exchanges will be more or less profitable products. A shift of enrollees from more profitable products to less profitable products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a holding company, we are dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are necessary to pay our outstanding indebtedness. Our regulated subsidiaries are subject to state regulations, including restrictions on the payment of dividends, maintenance of minimum levels of capital and restrictions on investment portfolios. We are a holding company whose assets include all of the outstanding shares of common stock (or other ownership interest) of our subsidiaries including our intermediate holding companies and regulated insurance and HMO subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities. As a holding company, we depend on dividends from our subsidiaries. Furthermore, our subsidiaries are not obligated to make funds available to us, and creditors of our subsidiaries will have a superior claim to certain of our subsidiaries’ assets. Among other restrictions, state insurance and HMO laws may restrict the -29-ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. In some states, we have made special undertakings that may limit the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. In addition, our subsidiaries’ ability to make any payments to us will also depend on their earnings, the terms of their indebtedness, business and tax considerations and other legal restrictions. Our ability to repurchase shares or pay dividends in the future to our shareholders and meet our obligations, including paying operating expenses and debt service on our outstanding and future indebtedness, will depend upon the receipt of dividends from our subsidiaries. An inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends in the future in an amount sufficient for us to meet our financial obligations may materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Most of our regulated subsidiaries are subject to RBC standards, imposed by their states of domicile. These laws are based on the RBC Model Act adopted by the NAIC and require our regulated subsidiaries to report their results of risk-based capital calculations to the departments of insurance and the NAIC. Failure to maintain the minimum RBC standards could subject our regulated subsidiaries to corrective action, including state supervision or liquidation. As discussed in more detail below, we are a party to license agreements with the BCBSA which contain certain requirements and restrictions regarding our operations, including minimum capital and liquidity requirements, which could restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. Our regulated subsidiaries are subject to state laws and regulations that require diversification of their investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments in certain riskier investment categories, such as below-investment-grade fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, real estate and equity investments, which could generate higher returns on our investments. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations might cause investments exceeding regulatory limitations to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus and risk-based capital, and, in some instances, require the sale of those investments. We have substantial indebtedness outstanding and may incur additional indebtedness in the future in connection with the Cigna acquisition or otherwise. Such indebtedness could also adversely affect our ability to pursue desirable business opportunities.  Our debt service obligations require us to use a portion of our cash flow to pay interest and principal on debt instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to seek extraordinary dividends from our subsidiaries, sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. However, these measures might be unsuccessful or inadequate in permitting us to meet scheduled debt service obligations. Upon completion of the Cigna acquisition, we expect to have incurred acquisition-related indebtedness of approximately $26.5 billion and to have assumed approximately $5.1 billion of Cigna’s outstanding debt. Our substantially increased indebtedness and debt-to-equity ratio on a recent historical basis will have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and may increase our borrowing costs. In addition, the amount of cash required to service our increased indebtedness levels and thus the demands on our cash resources may be greater than the percentages of cash flows required to service our indebtedness or the indebtedness of Cigna individually prior to the acquisition. The increased levels of indebtedness could also reduce funds available for our investments in product development as well as capital expenditures, share repurchases, shareholder dividends, other desirable business opportunities and other activities and may create competitive disadvantages for us relative to other companies with lower debt levels. In addition to the expected acquisition-related debt financing described above, we may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. Our breach or failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreement or other indebtedness. If we default under our credit agreement, the lenders could cease to make further extensions of credit or cause all of our outstanding debt obligations under our credit agreement to become immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If the indebtedness under our notes or our credit agreement or our other indebtedness is accelerated, we may be unable to repay or finance the amounts due. -30-A downgrade in our credit ratings could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims-paying ability and financial strength ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and health benefits companies. We believe our strong credit ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to customers, since credit ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. In addition, if our credit ratings are downgraded or placed under review, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted by limitations on future borrowings and a potential increase in our borrowing costs. Our ratings reflect each rating agency’s opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our obligations to policyholders and creditors, and are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in our common stock.Each of the ratings organizations reviews our ratings periodically, and there can be no assurance that our current ratings will be maintained in the future. Following the announcement of the Cigna acquisition, each of Standard & Poor’s, A.M. Best, Fitch and Moody’s placed certain of our debt, financial strength and other credit ratings under review for a possible downgrade. We face risks related to litigation. We are, or may in the future, be a party to a variety of legal actions that may affect any business, such as employment and employment discrimination-related suits and administrative charges before government agencies, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims and intellectual property-related litigation. In addition, because of the nature of our business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, administration and offering of our products and services. These could include claims relating to the denial of health care benefits; the rescission of health insurance policies; development or application of medical policy; medical malpractice actions; product liability claims; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation; provider tiering programs; narrow networks; termination of provider contracts; the recovery of overpayments from providers; self-funded business; disputes over co-payment calculations; reimbursement of out-of-network claims; the failure to disclose certain business or corporate governance practices; the failure to comply with various state or federal laws, including but not limited to, ERISA and the Mental Health Parity Act; and customer audits and contract performance, including government contracts. These actions or proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are also involved in, or may in the future be party to, pending or threatened litigation of the character incidental to the business transacted, arising out of our operations or our 2001 demutualization, including, but not limited to, breaches of security and violations of privacy requirements (including as a result of the cyber attack reported by us in February 2015, as more fully described under Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies - Cyber Attack Incident,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), shareholder actions, compliance with federal and state laws and regulations (including qui tam or “whistleblower” actions), or sales and acquisitions of businesses or assets. From time to time, we are involved as a party in various governmental investigations, audits, reviews and administrative proceedings, including challenges to the award of government contracts by disappointed bidders. These investigations, audits and reviews include routine and special investigations by various state insurance departments, state attorneys general and the U.S. Attorney General. Following an investigation, we may be subject to civil or criminal fines, penalties and other sanctions if we are determined to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations. Liabilities that may result from these actions could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial position. Recent court decisions and legislative activity may increase our exposure for any of these types of claims. In some cases, substantial non-economic (including injunctive relief), treble or punitive damages may be sought. Although we maintain insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, some liabilities and damages may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. In addition, insurance coverage for all or certain forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. Any adverse judgment against us resulting in such damage awards could have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. -31-Further, litigation brought against the federal and some state governments over Health Care Reform could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations as changes to Health Care Reform resulting from this litigation create uncertainty over the applicability and enforceability of portions of the law and the various regulations, which impacts our strategy and could negatively impact our future growth opportunities. Our future obligations for state guaranty association assessments could increase in the event that Health Care Reform and its implementation result in increased insolvencies of health insurance plans. Under insolvency or guaranty association laws in most states, insurance companies can be assessed for amounts paid by guaranty funds for policyholder losses incurred when a health insurance plan becomes insolvent. Most state insolvency or guaranty association laws provide for assessments based upon the amount of premiums received on insurance underwritten within such state. Although health insurance company insolvencies have been infrequent, with the implementation of Health Care Reform, a number of smaller health insurance companies and Consumer Operated and Oriented Plan, or Co-op, programs have established premiums that appear to be insufficient to cover the cost of care for their members, which may result in increased insolvencies of health insurance companies and Co-ops covered by these state insolvency or guaranty association laws. In that event, we may experience increased guaranty association assessments, the amount and timing of which cannot be predicted with certainty. In light of significant uncertainty surrounding whether, and to what extent, there may be an increase in insurer or Co-op insolvencies, we are not currently able to estimate our potential financial obligations, losses, or the availability of potential offsets associated with potential increases in guaranty association assessments; however, any significant increase in guaranty association assessments could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. There are various risks associated with providing health care services. The direct provision of health care services by our CareMore subsidiary involves risks of additional litigation arising from medical malpractice actions based on our treatment decisions or brought against us or our physician associates for alleged malpractice or professional liability claims arising out of the delivery of health care and related services. In addition, liability may arise from maintaining health care premises that serve the public. If we fail to maintain adequate insurance coverage for these liabilities, or if such insurance is not available, the resulting costs could adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, many states in which we operate our CareMore subsidiary limit the practice of medicine to licensed individuals or professional organizations comprised of licensed individuals. Business corporations generally may not exercise control over the medical decisions of physicians (“corporate practice of medicine”) and we are not licensed to practice medicine. Rules and regulations relating to the practice of medicine, fee-splitting between physicians and referral sources, and similar issues vary from state to state. Further, certain federal and state laws, including those covering our Medicare and Medicaid plans, prohibit the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of any form of remuneration to induce, or in return for, the referral of patient care opportunities, including, but not limited to, Medicare patients (“anti-kickback rules”), and also generally prohibit physicians from making referrals to any entity providing certain designated health services if the referring physician or related person has an ownership or financial interest in the entity (“self-referral rules”). Any enforcement actions by governmental officials alleging non-compliance with these rules and regulations could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. We are a party to license agreements with the BCBSA that entitle us to the exclusive and in certain areas non-exclusive use of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks in our geographic territories. The termination of these license agreements or changes in the terms and conditions of these license agreements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Upon completion of the Cigna acquisition, we may not initially be in compliance with the BCBSA’s national “best efforts” requirement.We use the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks as identifiers for our products and services under licenses from the BCBSA. Our license agreements with the BCBSA contain certain requirements and restrictions regarding our operations and our use of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks, including: minimum capital and liquidity requirements imposed by the BCBSA; enrollment and customer service performance requirements; participation in programs that provide portability of membership between plans; disclosures to the BCBSA relating to enrollment and financial conditions; disclosures as to the structure of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield system in contracts with third parties and in public -32-statements; plan governance requirements; cyber security requirements; a requirement that at least 80% (or, in the case of Blue Cross of California, substantially all) of a licensee’s annual combined local net revenue, as defined by the BCBSA, attributable to health care plans and related services within its service areas must be sold, marketed, administered or underwritten under the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks; a requirement that neither a plan nor any of its licensed affiliates may permit an entity other than a plan or a licensed affiliate to obtain control of the plan or the licensed affiliate or to acquire a substantial portion of its assets related to licensable services; a requirement that we divide our Board of Directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; a requirement that we guarantee certain contractual and financial obligations of our licensed affiliates; and a requirement that we indemnify the BCBSA against any claims asserted against it resulting from the contractual and financial obligations of any subsidiary that serves as a fiscal intermediary providing administrative services for Medicare Parts A and B. Failure to comply with the foregoing requirements could result in a termination of the license agreements. In addition, our license agreements with the BCBSA include a requirement that at least 66 2/3% of our annual combined national net revenue, as defined by the BCBSA, attributable to health care plans and related services must be sold, marketed, administered or underwritten under the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks, referred to as the “National Best Efforts Requirement.” Due to the size of Cigna’s business, we may not be in compliance with the National Best Efforts Requirement immediately after completion of the acquisition. We will be required to submit an action plan for coming into compliance with the National Best Efforts Requirement within 120 days of the completion of the Cigna acquisition if we are out of compliance following closing of the acquisition. Under current BCBSA standards, we would be required to cure any non-compliance with the National Best Efforts Requirement within 24 months from the date when the relevant BCBSA committee makes a determination on our action plan. We believe there are multiple options at our disposal to regain compliance within the allotted timeframe, if necessary. Although we strongly believe there would be numerous ways in which we could re-establish compliance with the National Best Efforts Requirement within the required 24 month period, there can be no guarantee such efforts will be successful, and failure to comply with the requirement could ultimately result in a termination of our license agreements under certain circumstances. The standards under the license agreements may be modified in certain instances by the BCBSA. For example, from time to time there have been proposals considered by the BCBSA to modify the terms of the license agreements to restrict various potential business activities of licensees. These proposals have included, among other things, a limitation on the ability of a licensee to make its provider networks available to insurance carriers or other entities not holding a Blue Cross or Blue Shield license. To the extent that such amendments to the license agreements are adopted in the future, they could have a material adverse effect on our future expansion plans or results of operations, or our ability to come back into compliance with the National Best Efforts Requirement if the Cigna acquisition is consummated. Further, BCBS licensees have certain requirements to perform administrative services for members of other BCBS licensees. If we or another BCBS licensee is not in compliance with all legal requirements or are unable to perform administrative services as required, this could have an adverse effect on our members and our ability to maintain our licenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Upon the occurrence of an event causing termination of the license agreements, we would no longer have the right to use the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks or to sell Blue Cross and Blue Shield health insurance products and services in one or more of our service areas. Furthermore, the BCBSA would be free to issue a license to use the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks in these service areas to another entity. Our existing Blue Cross and Blue Shield members would be provided with instructions for obtaining alternative products and services licensed by the BCBSA. Events that could cause the termination of a license agreement with the BCBSA include failure to comply with minimum capital requirements imposed by the BCBSA, failure to comply with governance requirements such as maintaining a classified board structure, a change of control or violation of the BCBSA ownership limitations on our capital stock, impending financial insolvency and the appointment of a trustee or receiver or the commencement of any action against a licensee seeking its dissolution. We believe that the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks are valuable identifiers of our products and services in the marketplace. Upon termination of a license agreement, the BCBSA would have the right to impose a “Re-establishment Fee” upon us, which would be used in part to fund the establishment of a replacement Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield licensee in the vacated service area. The fee is set at $98.33 per licensed enrollee. As of December 31, 2015, we reported 29.4 million Blue Cross -33-and/or Blue Shield enrollees. If the Re-establishment Fee was applied to our total Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield enrollees, we would be assessed approximately $2.9 billion by the BCBSA. As a result, termination of the license agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regional concentrations of our business may subject us to economic downturns in those regions.Most of our revenues are generated in California, Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Missouri, Nevada, New Hampshire, New York, Ohio, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and Wisconsin. Due to this concentration of business in these states, we are exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of state specific or regional economic downturns impacting these states. If such negative economic conditions do not improve, we may experience a reduction in existing and new business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.Large-scale medical emergencies may have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Large-scale medical emergencies can take many forms and can cause widespread illness and death. For example, federal and state law enforcement officials have issued warnings about potential terrorist activity involving biological and other weapons. In addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes and the potential for a widespread pandemic of influenza coupled with the lack of availability of appropriate preventative medicines can have a significant impact on the health of the population of widespread areas. If the United States were to experience widespread bioterrorism or other attacks, large-scale natural disasters in our concentrated coverage areas or a large-scale pandemic or epidemic, our covered medical expenses could rise and we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations or, in the event of extreme circumstances, our viability could be threatened. We have built a significant portion of our current business through mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances and we expect to pursue such opportunities in the future. The following are some of the risks associated with mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances, referred to collectively as business combinations, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations:•some of the acquired businesses may not achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow, business opportunities, synergies, growth prospects and other anticipated benefits;•the goodwill or other intangible assets established as a result of our business combinations may be incorrectly valued or become non-recoverable;•we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us or which were under-estimated;•we may experience difficulties in integrating acquired businesses, be unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or as quickly as expected, and be unable to realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems;•business combinations could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, result in the loss of key employees, divert resources, result in tax costs or inefficiencies and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls, information technology systems, policies and procedures;•we may finance future business combinations by issuing common stock for some or all of the purchase price, which could dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders;•we may also incur additional debt related to future business combinations; •we would be competing with other firms, some of which may have greater financial and other resources, to acquire attractive companies; and•future business combinations may make it difficult to comply with the requirements of the BCBSA and lead to an increased risk that our BCBSA license agreements may be terminated. -34-The value of our intangible assets may become impaired.Due largely to our past mergers, acquisitions and divestitures, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. If we make additional acquisitions, it is likely that we will record additional intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheets. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to income may be necessary. This impairment testing requires us to make assumptions and judgments regarding the estimated fair value of our reporting units, including goodwill and other intangible assets (with indefinite lives). In addition, certain other intangible assets with indefinite lives, such as trademarks, are also tested separately. Estimated fair values developed based on our assumptions and judgments might be significantly different if other reasonable assumptions and estimates were to be used. If estimated fair values are less than the carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives in future impairment tests, or if significant impairment indicators are noted relative to other intangible assets subject to amortization, we may be required to record impairment losses against future income. Any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially affect our results of operations and shareholders’ equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. A material decrease in shareholders’ equity could, in turn, negatively impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants. In addition, the estimated value of our reporting units may be impacted as a result of business decisions we make associated with the implementation of the various Health Care Reform regulations. Such decisions, which could unfavorably affect our ability to support the carrying value of certain goodwill and other intangible assets, could result in impairment charges in future periods. Adverse securities and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs. The securities and credit markets have been experiencing higher than normal volatility. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, make payments on our indebtedness and pay capital expenditures. The principal sources of our cash receipts are premiums, administrative fees, investment income, other revenue, proceeds from the sale or maturity of our investment securities, proceeds from borrowings and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock plans. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If one or a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms. The value of our investments is influenced by varying economic and market conditions, and a decrease in value may result in a loss charged to income. The market values of our investments vary from time to time depending on economic and market conditions. For various reasons, we may sell certain of our investments at prices that are less than the carrying value of the investments. In addition, in periods of declining interest rates, bond calls and mortgage loan prepayments generally increase, resulting in the reinvestment of these funds at the then lower market rates. In periods of rising interest rates, the market values of our fixed maturity securities will generally decrease, which could result in material unrealized or realized losses on investments in future periods. In addition, defaults by issuers, primarily from investments in corporate and municipal bonds, who fail to pay or perform their obligations, could reduce net investment income, which would adversely affect our profitability. We cannot assure you that our investment portfolios will produce positive returns in future periods.  In accordance with FASB guidance for debt and equity investments, we classify fixed maturity and equity securities in our investment portfolio as “available-for-sale” or “trading” and report those securities at fair value. Current and long-term -35-available-for-sale investment securities represented a significant percentage of our total consolidated assets at December 31, 2015. Also, in accordance with applicable FASB accounting guidance, we review our investment securities to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other-than-temporary. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. We conduct this review on a quarterly basis analyzing both quantitative and qualitative factors. Such factors considered include the length of time and the extent to which market value has been less than cost, financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, recommendations of investment advisors and forecasts of economic, market or industry trends. Changes in the economic environment, including periods of increased volatility of the securities markets, can increase the difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. We believe we have adequately reviewed our investment securities for impairment and we believe that we have appropriately estimated the fair values of our investment securities. However, over time, the economic and market environment may provide additional insight, which could change our judgment regarding the fair value of certain securities and/or impairment. Given the sometimes rapidly changing market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and material other-than-temporary impairments may be charged to income in future periods, resulting in realized losses. We may not be able to realize the value of our deferred tax assets. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we separately recognize deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Such deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities represent the tax effect of temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting measured at tax rates enacted at the time the deferred tax asset or liability is recorded. At each financial reporting date, we evaluate our deferred tax assets to determine the likely realization of the benefit of the temporary differences. Our evaluation includes a review of the types of temporary differences that created the deferred tax asset; the amount of taxes paid on both capital gains and ordinary income in prior periods and available for a carry-back claim; the forecasted future taxable income, and therefore, the likely future deduction of the deferred tax item; and any other significant issues that might impact the realization of the deferred tax asset. If it is “more likely than not” that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset may not be realized, we establish a valuation allowance. Significant judgment is required in determining an appropriate valuation allowance. Any future increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense and a decrease in shareholders’ equity, which could materially affect our financial position and results of operations in the period in which the increase occurs. A material decrease in shareholders’ equity could, in turn, negatively impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants. An unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential member or employee information, including by cyber attack or other security breach, could cause a loss of data, give rise to remediation or other expenses, expose us to liability under federal and state laws, and subject us to litigation and investigations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.As part of our normal operations, we collect, process and retain certain sensitive and confidential information. We are subject to various federal, state and international laws and rules regarding the use and disclosure of certain sensitive or confidential information, including HIPAA, the HITECH Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and numerous state laws governing personal information. Despite the security measures we have in place to help ensure data security and compliance with applicable laws and rules, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to cyber attacks, security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events.In February 2015, we reported the discovery that certain of our information technology systems had been the target of an external cyber attack, as more fully described under Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies - Cyber Attack Incident,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are addressing the impact of this cyber attack and supporting federal law enforcement efforts to identify the responsible parties. The attackers gained unauthorized access to certain of our information technology systems and obtained personal information related to many individuals and employees. We have incurred expenses to investigate and remediate this matter and expect to continue to incur expenses of this nature in the foreseeable future. Actions have been filed in various federal and state courts -36-and other claims have been or may be asserted against us, allegedly arising out of the cyber attack. Further, we may be subject to additional litigation and governmental investigations which could divert the attention of management from the operation of our business, result in reputational damage and have a material adverse impact on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. While we have contingency plans and insurance coverage for potential liabilities of this nature, these may not be sufficient to cover all claims and liabilities.In addition, we cannot ensure that we will be able to identify, prevent or contain the effects of additional cyber attacks or other cybersecurity risks in the future that bypass our security measures or disrupt our information technology systems or business. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage and unauthorized access, remain a priority for us. Noncompliance with any privacy or security laws and regulations, or any security breach, cyber attack or cybersecurity breach, and any incident involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of, or access to, sensitive or confidential member information, whether by us or by one of our vendors, could require us to expend significant resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures and to remediate any damage. In addition, this could result in interruptions to our operations and damage our reputation, and could also result in regulatory enforcement actions, material fines and penalties, litigation or other actions which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.The failure to effectively maintain and upgrade our information systems could adversely affect our business. Our business depends significantly on effective information systems, and we have many different information systems for our various businesses. As a result of our merger and acquisition activities, we have acquired additional systems. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing systems and develop new systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, emerging cybersecurity risks and threats, evolving industry and regulatory standards including public exchanges and other aspects of Health Care Reform, compliance with legal requirements, private insurance exchanges and changing customer preferences. In addition, we may from time to time obtain significant portions of our systems-related or other services or facilities from independent third parties, which may make our operations vulnerable if such third parties fail to perform adequately. Failure to adequately implement and maintain effective and efficient information systems with sufficiently advanced technological capabilities, or our failure to efficiently and effectively consolidate our information systems to eliminate redundant or obsolete applications, could result in competitive and cost disadvantages to us compared to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the information we rely upon to run our business were found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to adequately maintain our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could have a decrease in membership, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing and reserves, have disputes with customers and providers, have regulatory problems, sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. In addition, federal regulations required us to begin using ICD-10 on October 1, 2015, which has required and will continue to require significant information technology investment. If we fail to adequately implement ICD-10 or encounter difficulties in providers' implementation of ICD-10, we may incur losses with respect to the resources invested and have other material adverse effects on our business and results of operations. Also, as we convert or migrate members to our more efficient and effective systems, the risk of disruption in our customer service is increased during the migration or conversion process and such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on the success of our relationships with third parties for various services and functions, including pharmacy benefit management services. We contract with various third parties to perform certain functions and services and provide us with certain information technology systems. Certain of these third parties provide us with significant portions of our business infrastructure and operating requirements, and we could become overly dependent on key vendors, which could cause us to lose core competencies. A termination of our agreements with, or disruption in the performance of, one or more of these service providers could result in service disruptions or unavailability, reduced service quality and effectiveness, increased or duplicative costs, an inability to meet our obligations to our customers or require us to seek alternative service providers on less favorable contract terms, any of which could adversely affect our business, reputation, cash flows, financial condition and operating results.-37-In particular, we are a party to an agreement with Express Scripts whereby Express Scripts is the exclusive provider of certain PBM services to our plans, excluding our CareMore and Simply Healthcare subsidiaries and certain self-insured members, which have exclusive agreements with different PBM service providers. The Express Scripts PBM services include, but are not limited to, pharmacy network management, mail order and specialty drug fulfillment, claims processing, rebate management and specialty pharmaceutical management services. Accordingly, the agreement contains certain financial and operational requirements obligating both Express Scripts and us. The failure of either party to meet the respective requirements could potentially serve as a basis for early termination of the contract. If this relationship was terminated, we may not be able to meet the full demands of our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations, particularly if Express Scripts failed to provide post-termination services. In addition, our failure to meet certain minimum script volume requirements results in financial penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Indiana law, other applicable laws, our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and provisions of our BCBSA license agreements may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders might consider in their best interest. Indiana law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our shareholders might consider in their best interests. For instance, they may prevent our shareholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. We are regulated as an insurance holding company and subject to the insurance holding company acts of the states in which our insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled, as well as similar provisions included in the health statutes and regulations of certain states where these subsidiaries are regulated as managed care companies or HMOs. The insurance holding company acts and regulations and these similar health provisions restrict the ability of any person to obtain control of an insurance company or HMO without prior regulatory approval. Under those statutes and regulations, without such approval (or an exemption), no person may acquire any voting security of a domestic insurance company or HMO, or an insurance holding company which controls an insurance company or HMO, or merge with such a holding company, if as a result of such transaction such person would “control” the insurance holding company, insurance company or HMO. “Control” is generally defined as the direct or indirect power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person and is presumed to exist if a person directly or indirectly owns or controls 10% or more of the voting securities of another person. Further, the Indiana business corporation law contains business combination provisions that, in general, prohibit for five years any business combination with a beneficial owner of 10% or more of our common stock unless the holder’s acquisition of the stock was approved in advance by our Board of Directors. Our articles of incorporation restrict the beneficial ownership of our capital stock in excess of specific ownership limits. The ownership limits restrict beneficial ownership of our voting capital stock to less than 10% for institutional investors and less than 5% for non-institutional investors, both as defined in our articles of incorporation. Additionally, no person may beneficially own shares of our common stock representing a 20% or more ownership interest in us. These restrictions are intended to ensure our compliance with the terms of our licenses with the BCBSA. Our articles of incorporation prohibit ownership of our capital stock beyond these ownership limits without prior approval of a majority of our continuing directors (as defined in our articles of incorporation). In addition, as discussed above in the risk factor describing our license agreements with the BCBSA, such license agreements are subject to termination upon a change of control and re-establishment fees would be imposed upon termination of the license agreements. Certain other provisions included in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may also have anti-takeover effects and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that our shareholders might consider in their best interests. In particular, our articles of incorporation and bylaws: divide our Board of Directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms (which is required by our license agreement with the BCBSA); permit our Board of Directors to determine the terms of and issue one or more series of preferred stock without further action by shareholders; restrict the maximum number of directors; limit the ability of shareholders to remove directors; impose restrictions on shareholders’ ability to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors; prohibit shareholders from calling special meetings of shareholders; impose advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at meetings of shareholders; and prohibit shareholders from amending our bylaws. -38-We also face other risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, which include:•any requirement to restate financial results in the event of inappropriate application of accounting principles;•a significant failure of our internal control over financial reporting;•failure of our prevention and control systems related to employee compliance with internal policies, including data security;•provider fraud that is not prevented or detected and impacts our medical costs or those of self-insured customers;•failure to protect our proprietary information; and•failure of our corporate governance policies or procedures.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS.