Item 1A. Risk Factors   This section provides an overview of the risks that may impact our performance in the future. In light of the recent turmoil and volatility in the financial markets, we have completed a comprehensive review of our risk factors. This section supersedes in their entirety the risks described under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, filed with the SEC.   Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, as well as our access to capital and cost of capital.   The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. In recent weeks, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels and the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. For example, recently credit spreads have widened considerably. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by continued disruptions in the capital and credit markets.   We maintain a level of cash and securities which, combined with expected cash inflows from investments and operations, is believed adequate to meet anticipated short-term and long-term benefit and expense payment obligations. However, withdrawal and surrender levels may differ from anticipated levels for a variety of reasons, such as changes in economic conditions or changes in our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings. For additional information regarding our exposure to interest rate risk and the impact of a downgrade in our financial strength ratings, see “—Changes in interest rates or credit spreads may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and our net investment income can vary from period-to-period” and “—A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings may increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, reduce new sales and terminate relationships with distributors, impact existing liabilities and increase our cost of capital, any of which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.” In the event our current internal sources of liquidity do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us.   Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital requirements; fund redemption requests on insurance or other financial products; generate fee income and market-related revenue to meet liquidity needs and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, utilize available internal resources or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility and liquidity.   For further discussion on liquidity risk management, see Item 2. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.”   94      Table of Contents   Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future.   Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. The stress experienced by global capital markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during 2008. Recently, concerns over the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, a declining real estate market in the U.S., inflation, energy costs and geopolitical issues have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and fears of a recession. In addition, the fixed-income markets are experiencing a period of extreme volatility which has negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. Initially, the concerns on the part of market participants were focused on the subprime segment of the mortgage-backed securities market. However, these concerns have since expanded to include a broad range of mortgage- and asset-backed and other fixed income securities, including those rated investment grade; the U.S. and international credit and interbank money markets, generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes and sectors. As a result, the market for fixed income instruments has experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probability of default. Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and may be hard to dispose of. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio. Our AUM and revenues may decline in such circumstances and our profit margins could erode. In addition, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility.   Domestic and international equity markets have also been experiencing severe declines and heightened volatility. Because the revenues of our asset management business are, to a large extent, based on the value of AUM, a decline in domestic and global equity markets will decrease our revenues. Turmoil in these markets could lead investors to withdraw from these markets, decrease their rates of investment or refrain from making new investments which may reduce our net income, revenues and AUM.   Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. In addition participants within the retirement plans we administer may elect to reduce or stop their payroll deferrals to these plans, which would reduce AUM and revenues. Adverse changes in the economy could affect net income negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   There can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect.   In response to the financial crisis affecting the financial markets, on October 3, 2008, President Bush signed the EESA into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, make equity investments in certain financial institutions and purchase mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for an aggregate amount of up to $700.0 billion. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced that the U.S. government would acquire up to a total of $250.0 billion of equity stakes in financial institutions throughout the U.S., including preferred shares of nine of the largest financial institutions in the U.S.   In addition, on October 7, 2008, the Federal Reserve announced that it would buy U.S. commercial paper through a special funding facility designed to provide liquidity to short-term-funding markets and backstop U.S. issuers of commercial paper. The facility will buy unsecured and asset-backed three-month commercial paper directly from eligible issuers and the U.S. Federal Reserve will lend funds to the funding vehicle at the target federal funds rate. The Federal Reserve began purchasing U.S. commercial paper under this program on October 27, 2008. PFS has been granted approval to participate in the commercial paper program.   95      Table of Contents   The federal government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis, including future investments in other financial institutions. There can be no assurance as to what impact such actions will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility currently being experienced. Such continued volatility could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, or the trading price of our common stock. As details emerge, we are evaluating our options and considering a strategy to utilize these additional sources of liquidity and capital flexibility.   Our participation in a securities lending program subjects us to potential liquidity and other risks.   We participate in a securities lending program for our general account whereby primarily fixed income securities are loaned by us to third parties, primarily major brokerage firms and commercial banks. The borrowers of our securities provide us with collateral, typically in cash, which we separately maintain. We invest such cash collateral in other securities, primarily U.S. Treasuries, U.S. government agency securities, U.S. government agency collateralized repurchase agreements and government money market funds. Securities with an estimated fair value of $387.5 million and $608.9 million were on loan under the program at September 30, 2008, and December 31, 2007, respectively. Securities loaned under such transactions may be sold or repledged by the transferee. We were liable for cash collateral under our control of $398.8 million and $622.7 million at September 30, 2008, and December 31, 2007, respectively.   As of September 30, 2008, $387.5 million of the securities on loan under the program could be returned to us by the borrowers at any time. Returns of loaned securities would require us to return the cash collateral associated with such loaned securities. In addition, in some cases, the maturity of the securities held as invested collateral (i.e., securities that we have purchased with cash received from the third parties) may exceed the term of the related securities loan and the market value may fall below the amount of cash received as collateral and invested. If we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice and we are forced to sell securities to meet the return obligation, we may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. In addition, under stressful capital market and economic conditions, such as those conditions we have experienced recently, liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further restrict our ability to sell securities.   If we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities over time, the amount of income generated by these activities will also likely decline.   Changes in interest rates or credit spreads may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and our net investment income can vary from period-to-period.   We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate values, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, the performance of the economy in general, the performance of the specific obligors included in our portfolio and other factors outside our control. Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. A rise in interest rates will increase the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio and, if long-term interest rates rise dramatically within a six to twelve month time period, certain of our life insurance businesses may be exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate assets in an unrealized loss position. Due to the long-term nature of the liabilities associated with certain of our life insurance businesses, sustained declines in long-term interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging costs. In other situations, declines in interest rates may result in increasing the duration of certain life insurance liabilities, creating asset and liability duration mismatches.   Our investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates from governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. A rise in interest rates would increase the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio, offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested. Conversely, a decline in interest rates would decrease the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio, offset by lower rates of return on funds reinvested. Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities.   96      Table of Contents   Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price variability and reinvestment risk associated with changes in credit spreads. A widening of credit spreads will increase the net unrealized loss position of the investment portfolio, will increase losses associated with credit-based derivatives that do not qualify or have not been designated for hedge accounting where we assume credit exposure, and, if issuer credit spreads increase as a result of fundamental credit deterioration, would likely result in higher other-than-temporary impairments. Credit spread tightening will reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturities. Credit spread tightening may also cause an increase in the reported value of certain liabilities that are valued using a discount rate that reflects our own credit spread. In addition, market volatility has made it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period-to-period changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. Recent credit spreads on both corporate and structured securities have widened, resulting in continuing depressed pricing. Continuing challenges include continued weakness in the U.S. residential real estate market and increased mortgage delinquencies, investor anxiety over the U.S. economy, rating agency downgrades of various structured products and financial issuers, unresolved issues with structured investment vehicles and monolines, deleveraging of financial institutions and hedge funds and a serious dislocation in the inter-bank market. If significant, continued volatility, changes in interest rates, changes in credit spreads and defaults, a lack of pricing transparency, market liquidity, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, individually or in tandem, could continue to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows through realized losses, impairments, and changes in unrealized positions.   Our investment portfolio is subject to several risks that may diminish the value of our invested assets and the investment returns credited to customers, which could reduce our sales, revenues, AUM and net income.   An increase in defaults on our fixed maturity securities portfolio may reduce our profitability.   We are subject to the risk that the issuers of the fixed maturity securities we own will default on principal and interest payments, particularly if a major downturn in economic activity occurs. As of September 30, 2008, our U.S. investment operations held $43.0 billion of fixed maturity securities, or 73% of total U.S. invested assets, of which approximately 5.2% were below investment grade, including $180.7 million, or 0.42% of our total fixed maturity securities which we classified as either “problem,” “potential problem,” or “restructured.” See Part I, Item 2. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — U.S. Investment Operations — Fixed Maturity Securities.” As of September 30, 2008, the international investment operations of our fully consolidated subsidiaries held $2.6 billion, or 65%, of total international invested assets in fixed maturity securities, of which 19% are government bonds. Some non-government bonds have been rated on the basis of the issuer’s country credit rating. However, the ratings relationship between national ratings and global ratings is not linear with the U.S. The starting point for national ratings differs by country, which makes the assessment of credit quality more difficult. See Part I, Item 2. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — International Investment Operations.” An increase in defaults on our fixed maturity securities portfolio could harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability.   An increased rate of delinquency and defaults on our commercial mortgage loans, especially those with balloon payments, may adversely affect our profitability.   Our commercial mortgage loan portfolio faces both delinquency and default risk. Commercial mortgage loans of $11.3 billion represented 18% of our total invested assets as of September 30, 2008. As of September 30, 2008, loans that were in the process of foreclosure totaled $21.0 million, or 0.2% of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. The performance of our commercial mortgage loan investments, however, may fluctuate in the future. An increase in the delinquency rate of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio could harm our financial strength and decrease our profitability.   As of September 30, 2008, approximately $9.5 billion, or 84%, of our commercial mortgage loans before valuation allowance had balloon payment maturities. A balloon maturity is a loan with larger dollar amounts of payments becoming due in the later years of the loan. The default rate on commercial mortgage loans with balloon payment maturities has historically been higher than for commercial mortgage loans with standard repayment schedules. Since most of the principal is being repaid at maturity, the amount of loss on a default is generally greater than on other commercial mortgage loans. An increase in defaults on such loans as a result of the foregoing factors could harm our financial strength and reduce our net income.   97      Table of Contents   We may have difficulty selling our privately placed fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage loans and real estate investments because they are less liquid than our publicly traded fixed maturity securities and because they have been experiencing significant market valuation fluctuations.   We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as privately placed fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage loans and real estate investments. These asset classes represented approximately 41% of the value of our invested assets as of September 30, 2008. Even some of our very high quality assets have been more illiquid as a result of the recent challenging market conditions.   If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of investments, our investments in the asset classes described above and, at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our assets in the current market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices.   The impairment of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.   We use derivative instruments to hedge various risks we face in our businesses. See Part I, Item 3. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” We enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps, swaptions, futures, currency swaps, currency forwards, credit default swaps, treasury lock agreements, commodity swaps and options, with a number of counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other investment funds and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. If our counterparties fail to honor their obligations under the derivative instruments, we will have failed to effectively hedge the related risk. In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to it. We also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments and equity investments. Such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these assets may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.   Our requirements to post collateral or make payments related to declines in market value of specified assets may adversely affect our liquidity and expose us to counterparty credit risk.   Many of our derivative transactions with financial and other institutions specify the circumstances under which the parties are required to post collateral. The amount of collateral we may be required to post under these agreements may increase under certain circumstances, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, under the terms of some of our transactions we may be required to make payment to our counterparties related to any decline in the market value of the specified assets. Such payments could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Furthermore, with respect to any such payments, we will have unsecured risk to the counterparty as these amounts are not required to be segregated from the counterparty’s other funds, are not held in a third-party custodial account, and are not required to be paid to us by the counterparty until the termination of the transaction.   Environmental liability exposure may result from our commercial mortgage loan portfolio and real estate investments.   Liability under environmental protection laws resulting from our commercial mortgage loan portfolio and real estate investments may harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability. Under the laws of several states, contamination of a property may give rise to a lien on the property to secure recovery of the costs of cleanup. In some states, this kind of lien has priority over the lien of an existing mortgage against the property, which would impair our ability to foreclose on that property should the related loan be in default. In addition, under the laws of some states and under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, we may be liable for costs of addressing releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances that require remedy at a property securing a mortgage loan held by us, if our agents or employees have become sufficiently involved in the hazardous waste aspects of the operations of the related obligor on that loan, regardless of whether or not the environmental damage or threat was caused by the obligor. We also may face this liability after foreclosing on a property securing a mortgage loan held by us. This may harm our financial strength and decrease our profitability.   98      Table of Contents   Regional concentration of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio in California may subject us to economic downturns or losses attributable to earthquakes in that state.   Credit extensions in the state of California accounted for 20%, or $2.2 billion, of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio as of September 30, 2008. Due to this concentration of commercial mortgage loans in California, we are exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of an economic downturn in California as well as to catastrophes, such as earthquakes, that may affect the region. While we generally do not require earthquake insurance for properties on which we make commercial mortgage loans, we do take into account property specific engineering reports, construction type and geographical concentration by fault lines in our investment underwriting guidelines. If economic conditions in California deteriorate or catastrophes occur, we may experience delinquencies or defaults on the portion of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio located in California in the future, which may harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability.   Our valuation of fixed maturity and equity securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.   Fixed maturity securities, equity securities, and short-term investments which are reported at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet represented the majority of our total cash and invested assets. SFAS 157 establishes a three-level hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The level in the fair value hierarchy is based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). An asset or liability’s classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to its valuation.   · Level 1: Fair values are based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. · Level 2: Fair values are based on inputs other than quoted prices within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. · Level 3: Fair values are based on at least one significant unobservable input for the asset or liability.   At September 30, 2008, approximately 34%, 59% and 7% of our assets and liabilities reported at fair value represented Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3, respectively. Our Level 1 assets and liabilities primarily include exchange traded equity securities, mutual funds and U.S. Treasury bonds. Our Level 2 assets and liabilities primarily include fixed maturity securities (including public and private bonds), equity securities, over-the-counter derivatives and other investments for which public quotations are not available but that are priced by third-party pricing services or determined through the use of valuation models or methodologies, including matrix pricing, using substantially all observable inputs. Our Level 3 assets and liabilities include certain fixed maturity securities, private equity securities, complex derivatives and embedded derivatives. Level 3 securities contain unobservable market inputs and as a result considerable judgment may be used in determining the fair values. These fair values are generally obtained through the use of valuation models or methodologies using significant unobservable inputs or broker quotes. Prices provided by independent pricing services or independent broker quotes that are used in the determination of fair value can vary for a particular security.   For additional information on our valuation methodology, see Part I, Item 1. “Financial Statements, Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 7, Fair Value Measurement.”   During periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, for example collateralized mortgage obligations and collateralized debt obligations, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation, thereby resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.   99      Table of Contents   The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position.   The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments vary by investment type and is based upon our monthly evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken and allowances reflected in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances.   Additionally, our management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses their best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Inherent in management’s evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. For further information regarding our impairment methodology, see Part I, Item 2. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — U.S. Investment Operations —Fixed Maturity Securities.”   Gross unrealized losses may be realized or result in future impairments, resulting in a reduction in our net income.   Fixed maturity securities that are classified as available for sale (“AFS”) are reported on the balance sheet at fair value. Unrealized gains or losses on AFS securities are recognized as a component of equity and are, therefore, excluded from net income. Our gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities at September 30, 2008, were $4.4 billion pre-tax and the component of gross unrealized losses for securities trading down 20% or more for six months or more was approximately $969.5 million pre-tax. The accumulated change in fair value of the AFS securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the asset or in the event that the decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary (referred to as an other-than-temporary impairment). Realized losses or impairments may have a material adverse impact on our net income in a particular quarter or annual period.   Competition from companies that may have greater financial resources, broader arrays of products, higher ratings and stronger financial performance may impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability.   We believe that our ability to compete is based on a number of factors including scale, service, product features, price, investment performance, commission structure, distribution capabilities, financial strength ratings and name recognition. We compete with a large number of financial services companies such as banks, broker-dealers, insurers and asset managers, many of which have advantages over us in one or more of the above competitive factors.   Each of our segments faces strong competition. The primary competitors for our U.S. Asset Accumulation and Global Asset Management segments are asset managers, banks, broker-dealers and insurers. Our ability to increase and retain AUM is directly related to the performance of our investments as measured against market averages and the performance of our competitors. Even when securities prices are generally rising, performance can be affected by investment styles. Also, there is a risk that we may not be able to attract and retain the top talent needed to compete in our industry.   Competition for our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment comes primarily from local financial services firms and other international companies operating on a stand-alone basis or in partnership with local firms. Our Life and Health Insurance segment competes with insurers and health maintenance organizations.   National banks, with their large existing customer bases, may increasingly compete with insurers as a result of court rulings allowing national banks to sell annuity products in some circumstances, and as a result of legislation removing restrictions on bank affiliations with insurers. Specifically, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 permits mergers that combine commercial banks, insurers and securities firms under one holding company. These developments may increase competition, in particular for our asset management and accumulation businesses, by substantially increasing the number, size and financial strength of potential competitors who may be able to offer, due to economies of scale, more competitive pricing than we can.   100      Table of Contents   A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings may increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, reduce new sales and terminate relationships with distributors, impact existing liabilities and increase our cost of capital, any of which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.   Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (“NRSROs”) publish financial strength ratings on U.S. life insurance companies that are indicators of an insurance company’s ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations. NRSROs also assign credit ratings on non-life insurance entities, such as Principal Financial Group, Inc. and Principal Financial Services, Inc. Credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer’s ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner, and are important factors in overall funding profile and ability to access external capital.   Ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and maintaining public confidence in products being offered. A ratings downgrade, or the potential for such a downgrade, could, among other things:   · materially increase the number of surrenders for all or a portion of the net cash values by the owners of policies, contracts, general account guaranteed investment contracts and funding agreements we have issued, and materially increase the number of withdrawals by policyholders of cash values from their policies;   · result in the termination of our relationships with broker-dealers, banks, agents, wholesalers and other distributors of our products and services;   · reduce new sales, particularly with respect to general account guaranteed investment contracts and funding agreements purchased by pension plans and other institutions;   · cause some of our existing liabilities to be subject to acceleration, additional collateral support, changes in terms, or creation of additional financial obligations and   · increase our cost of capital and limit our access to the capital markets.   Any of these consequences could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.   In the last two months, each of A.M. Best Company, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd., Moody’s Investors Service, and Standard & Poor’s has revised its outlook for the U.S. life insurance industry to negative from stable. Of the many issues cited, the negative outlook is primarily based on expectations for higher-than-normal credit losses, negative impact of the volatile equity market on earnings, and reduced financial flexibility.   These outlook revisions signal increased review of U.S. life insurance companies by A.M. Best Company, Inc., Fitch Ratings, Ltd., Moody’s Investors Service, and Standard & Poor’s. As a result, it is possible that there will be changes in the benchmarks for capital, liquidity, earnings and other factors used by these NRSROs that are critical to a ratings assignment at a particular rating level. If any such changes are made, it is possible that such changes could have an impact on the ratings of U.S. life insurance companies, including ours, which could adversely impact our profitability and financial condition.   Our efforts to reduce the impact of interest rate changes on our profitability and retained earnings may not be effective.   We attempt to significantly reduce the impact of changes in interest rates on the profitability and retained earnings of our asset accumulation and life and health insurance operations. We accomplish this reduction primarily by managing the duration of our assets relative to the duration of our liabilities. During a period of rising interest rates, policy surrenders, withdrawals and requests for policy loans may increase as customers seek to achieve higher returns. Despite our efforts to reduce the impact of rising interest rates, we may be required to sell assets to raise the cash necessary to respond to such surrenders, withdrawals and loans, thereby realizing capital losses on the assets sold. Liquidations may result in capital losses, particularly in periods of volatile interest rates and credit spreads. Because volatile interest rates and credit spreads often make it more difficult to sell certain fixed income securities, there is also a risk that we will find it difficult to raise the cash necessary to fund a very large amount of withdrawal activity. An increase in policy surrenders and withdrawals may also require us to accelerate amortization of DPAC relating to these contracts, which would further reduce our profitability.   During periods of declining interest rates, borrowers may prepay or redeem mortgages and bonds that we own, which would force us to reinvest the proceeds at lower interest rates. For some of our products, such as guaranteed investment contracts and funding agreements, we are unable to lower the rate we credit to customers in response to the lower return we will earn on our investments. In addition, it may be more difficult for us to maintain our desired spread between the    101      Table of Contents   investment income we earn and the interest we credit to our customers during periods of declining interest rates, thereby reducing our profitability.   For further discussion on interest rate risk management, see Part I, Item 3. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Interest Rate Risk.”   If we are unable to attract and retain sales representatives and develop new distribution sources, sales of our products and services may be reduced.   We distribute our asset accumulation, asset management and life, health and specialty benefit insurance products and services through a variety of distribution channels, including our own internal sales representatives, independent brokers, banks, broker-dealers and other third-party marketing organizations. We must attract and retain sales representatives to sell our products. Strong competition exists among financial services companies for efficient sales representatives. We compete with other financial services companies for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services and compensation and product features. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient sales representatives to sell our products, our ability to compete and revenues from new sales would suffer.   Our international businesses face political, legal, operational and other risks that could reduce our profitability in those businesses.   Our international businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision from central and/or local governmental authorities in each country in which we operate. New interpretations of existing laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations may harm our international businesses and reduce our profitability in those businesses.   Our international businesses face political, legal, operational and other risks that we do not face in our operations in the U.S. We face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization or expropriation of assets, price controls and exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies. Some of our international businesses are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging or potentially volatile markets. In addition, we rely on local staff, including local sales forces, in these countries where there is a risk that we may encounter labor problems with local staff, especially in countries where workers’ associations and trade unions are strong. If our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in that country.   We may face losses if our actual experience differs significantly from our pricing and reserving assumptions.   Our profitability depends significantly upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions used in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future insurance and annuity policy benefits and claims. The premiums that we charge and the liabilities that we hold for future policy benefits are based on assumptions concerning a number of factors, including the amount of premiums that we will receive in the future, rate of return on assets we purchase with premiums received, expected claims, mortality, morbidity, expenses and persistency, which is the measurement of the percentage of insurance policies remaining in force from year to year, as measured by premiums. However, due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of the liabilities for unpaid policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts we will ultimately pay to settle these liabilities. As a result, we may experience volatility in the level of our profitability and our reserves from period-to-period, particularly for our health and disability insurance products. To the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than our underlying assumptions, we could be required to increase our liabilities, which may harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability.   For example, if mortality rates are higher than our pricing assumptions, we will be required to make greater claims payments on our life insurance policies than we had projected. However, this risk is partially offset by our payout annuity business, where an increase in mortality rates will result in a decrease in benefit payments. Our operating earnings may also be adversely impacted by an increase in morbidity rates.   For additional information on our insurance reserves, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Insurance Reserves” in our Annual Report in Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.   102      Table of Contents   Our ability to pay stockholder dividends and meet our obligations may be constrained by the limitations on dividends Iowa insurance laws impose on Principal Life.   We are an insurance holding company whose assets include all of the outstanding shares of the common stock of Principal Life and other subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders and meet our obligations, including paying operating expenses and any debt service, depends upon the receipt of dividends from Principal Life. Iowa insurance laws impose limitations on the ability of Principal Life to pay dividends to us. Any inability of Principal Life to pay dividends to us in the future may cause us to be unable to pay dividends to our stockholders and meet our other obligations. See Part I, Item 2. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of regulatory restrictions on Principal Life’s ability to pay us dividends.   The pattern of amortizing our DPAC and other actuarial balances on our investment contract, participating life insurance and universal life-type products may change, impacting both the level of the asset and the timing of our net income.   Amortization of the DPAC asset depends on the actual and expected profits generated by the lines of business that incurred the expenses. Expected profits are dependent on assumptions regarding a number of factors including investment returns, benefit payments, expenses, mortality and policy lapse. Due to the uncertainty associated with establishing these assumptions, we cannot, with precision, determine the exact pattern of profit emergence. As a result, amortization of DPAC will vary from period-to-period. To the extent that actual experience emerges less favorably than expected, or our expectation for future profits decreases, the DPAC asset may be reduced, reducing our profitability in the current period.   For additional information, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Other Actuarial Balances” in our Annual Report in Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.   We may need to fund deficiencies in our Closed Block assets.   In connection with its conversion in 1998 into a stock life insurance company, Principal Life established an accounting mechanism, known as a “Closed Block” for the benefit of participating ordinary life insurance policies that had a dividend scale in force on July 1, 1998. Dividend scales are the actuarial formulas used by life insurance companies to determine amounts payable as dividends on participating policies based on experience factors relating to, among other things, investment results, mortality, lapse rates, expenses, premium taxes and policy loan interest and utilization rates. The Closed Block was designed to provide reasonable assurance to policyholders included in the Closed Block that, after the conversion, assets would be available to maintain the aggregate dividend scales in effect for 1997 if the experience underlying such scales were to continue.   We allocated assets to the Closed Block as of July 1, 1998, in an amount such that we expected their cash flows, together with anticipated revenues from the policies in the Closed Block, to be sufficient to support the Closed Block business, including payment of claims, expenses, charges and taxes and to provide for the continuation of aggregate dividend scales in accordance with the 1997 policy dividend scales if the experience underlying such scales continued, and to allow for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changed. We bear the costs of expenses associated with Closed Block policies and, accordingly, these costs were not funded as part of the assets allocated to the Closed Block. Any increase in such costs in the future will be borne by us. As of September 30, 2008, Closed Block assets and liabilities were $4,574.1 million and $5,745.0 million, respectively.   We will continue to pay guaranteed benefits under the policies included in the Closed Block, in accordance with their terms. The Closed Block assets, cash flows generated by the Closed Block assets and anticipated revenues from polices included in the Closed Block may not be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. If they are not sufficient, we must fund the shortfall. Even if they are sufficient, we may choose for business reasons to support dividend payments on policies in the Closed Block with our general account funds.   The Closed Block assets, cash flows generated by the Closed Block assets and anticipated revenues from policies in the Closed Block will benefit only the holders of those policies. In addition, to the extent that these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time we funded the Closed Block, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the Closed Block may be greater than they would have been in the absence of a Closed Block. Any excess net income will be available for distribution over time to Closed Block policyholders but will not be available to our stockholders.   103      Table of Contents   A pandemic, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could adversely affect our net income.   Our mortality and morbidity experience could be adversely impacted by a catastrophic event. In addition, a severe catastrophic event may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. The resulting macroeconomic conditions could adversely affect our cash flows, as well as the value and liquidity of our invested assets. We may also experience operational disruptions if our employees are unable or unwilling to come to work due to a pandemic or other catastrophe. We have developed extensive contingency plans to minimize the risk of operational disruptions. In addition, our use of reinsurance reduces our exposure to adverse mortality experience. Despite these measures, we may still be exposed to losses in the event of a pandemic, terrorist attack, or other catastrophe.   Our reinsurers could default on their obligations or increase their rates, which could adversely impact our net income and profitability.   We cede material amounts of insurance to other insurance companies through reinsurance. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies” in our Annual Report in Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. However, we remain liable to the policyholder, even if the reinsurer defaults on its obligations with respect to the ceded business. If a reinsurer fails to meet its obligations, we will be forced to cover the claims on the reinsured policies. In addition, a reinsurer insolvency may cause us to lose our reserve credits on the ceded business, in which case we would be required to establish additional reserves.   The premium rates that we charge are based, in part, on the assumption that reinsurance will be available at a certain cost. Some of our reinsurance contracts contain provisions which limit the reinsurer’s ability to increase rates on in-force business; however, some do not. If a reinsurer raises the rates that it charges on a block of in-force business, our profitability may be negatively impacted if we are not able to pass the increased costs on to the customer. If reinsurers raise the rates that they charge on new business, we may be forced to raise the premiums that we charge, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position.   To mitigate the risks associated with the use of reinsurance, we carefully select our reinsurers, and we monitor their ratings and financial condition on a regular basis. We also spread our business among several reinsurers, in order to diversify our risk exposure.   We face risks arising from acquisitions of businesses.   We have engaged in acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. We face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including difficulties in integrating the acquired business into our operations, difficulties in assimilating and retaining employees and intermediaries, difficulties in retaining the existing customers of the acquired entity, unforeseen liabilities that arise in connection with the acquired business and unfavorable market conditions that could negatively impact our growth expectations for the acquired business. These risks may prevent us from realizing the expected benefits from acquisitions and could result in the impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets recognized at the time of acquisition.   Changes in laws, regulations or accounting standards may reduce our profitability.   Changes in regulations may reduce our profitability.   Our insurance business is subject to comprehensive state regulation and supervision throughout the U.S and in the international markets in which we operate. We are also impacted by federal legislation and administrative policies in areas such as employee benefit plan regulation, financial services regulations and federal taxation. The primary purpose of state regulation of the insurance business is to protect policyholders, not stockholders. The laws of the various states establish insurance departments with broad powers to regulate such matters as:   · licensing companies to transact business,   · licensing agents,   · admitting statutory assets,   · mandating a number of insurance benefits,   104      Table of Contents   · regulating premium rates,   · approving policy forms,   · regulating unfair trade and claims practices,   · establishing statutory reserve requirements and solvency standards,   · fixing maximum interest rates on life insurance policy loans and minimum rates for accumulation of surrender values,   · restricting various transactions between affiliates and   · regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.   State insurance regulators, federal regulators and the NAIC continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, and may impose changes in the future.   Federal legislation and administrative policies in areas such as employee benefit plan regulation, financial services regulation and federal taxation can reduce our profitability. For example, Congress has, from time to time, considered legislation relating to changes in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to permit application of state law remedies, such as consequential and punitive damages, in lawsuits for wrongful denial of benefits, which, if adopted, could increase our liability for damages in future litigation. Additionally, new interpretations of existing laws and the passage of new legislation may harm our ability to sell new policies and increase our claims exposure on policies we issued previously. In addition, reductions in contribution levels to defined contribution plans may decrease our profitability.   Changes in tax laws could increase our tax costs and reduce sales of our insurance, annuity and investment products.   Current federal income tax laws generally permit the tax-deferred accumulation of earnings on the premiums paid by the holders of annuities and life insurance products. Taxes, if any, are payable on income attributable to a distribution under the contract for the year in which the distribution is made. Congress has, from time to time, considered legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of such deferral of taxation on the accretion of value within life insurance and non-qualified annuity contracts. Enactment of this legislation, including a simplified “flat tax” income structure with an exemption from taxation for investment income, could result in fewer sales of our insurance, annuity and investment products.   From time to time, Congress, as well as foreign, state and local governments, considers legislation that could increase our tax costs. If such legislation is adopted, our profitability could be negatively impacted.   Repeal or modification of the federal estate tax could reduce our revenues.   The Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 (the “Act”) amended the federal estate tax laws by increasing the amount of the unified credit beginning in 2002, thereby increasing the amount of property not subject to the estate tax. The Act also gradually reduces the federal estate tax rate over a period of years beginning in 2002, and repeals the tax entirely in 2010. The law in effect prior to the Act, however, is reinstated for years after 2010. Through the nine months ended September 30, 2008, we received recurring premium of $39.7 million for survivorship life insurance policies we have sold. A significant number of these policies were purchased for the purpose of providing cash to pay federal estate taxes. The reduction of the federal estate tax and temporary repeal could result in policyholders reducing coverage under, or surrendering, these policies.   Changes in federal, state and foreign securities laws may reduce our profitability.   Our asset management and accumulation and life insurance businesses are subject to various levels of regulation under federal, state and foreign securities laws. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets or investment advisory or brokerage clients and generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. Changes to these laws or regulations that restrict the conduct of our business could reduce our profitability.   105      Table of Contents   Changes in accounting standards may reduce our profitability.   Accounting standards are subject to change and can negatively impact our profitability. See Part I, Item 1. “Financial Statements, Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies.” In addition to recently issued accounting guidance, the standard setters have a full agenda of topics they plan to review, any of which have the potential to negatively impact our profitability. The results for past accounting periods are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any future accounting period.   A computer system failure or security breach could disrupt our business, damage our reputation and adversely impact our profitability.   We rely on computer systems to conduct business, including customer service, marketing and sales activities, customer relationship management and producing financial statements. While we have policies, procedures, automation and backup plans designed to prevent or limit the effect of failure, our computer systems may be vulnerable to disruptions or breaches as the result of natural disasters, man-made disasters, criminal activity, pandemics, or other events beyond our control. The failure of our computer systems for any reason could disrupt our operations, result in the loss of customer business and adversely impact our profitability.   We retain confidential information on our computer systems, including customer information and proprietary business information. Any compromise of the security of our computer systems that results in the disclosure of personally identifiable customer information could damage our reputation, expose us to litigation, increase regulatory scrutiny and require us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses.   Results of litigation and regulatory investigations may affect our financial strength or reduce our profitability.   We are a plaintiff or defendant in actions arising out of our insurance businesses and investment operations. We are, from time to time, also involved in various governmental, regulatory and administrative proceedings and inquiries. These factors may affect our financial strength or reduce our profitability. For further discussion on litigation and regulatory investigation risk, see Item 1. “Legal Proceedings.”   From time to time we may become subject to tax audits, tax litigation or similar proceedings, and as a result we may owe additional taxes, interest and penalties in amounts that may be material.   We are subject to income taxes in the United States as well as many other jurisdictions. In determining our provisions for income taxes and our accounting for tax-related matters in general, we are required to exercise judgment. We regularly make estimates where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We cannot assure you that the final determination of any tax audit, appeal of the decision of a taxing authority, tax litigation or similar proceedings will not be materially different from that reflected in our historical financial statements. The assessment of additional taxes, interest and penalties could be materially adverse to our current and future results of operations and financial condition.   Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could reduce our profitability.   Principal International generally writes policies denominated in various local currencies and invests the premiums and deposits in local currencies. Although investing in local currencies limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of these results into our consolidated financial statements. For further discussion on foreign currency exchange risk, see Part I, Item 3. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Foreign Currency Risk.”   Applicable laws and our stockholder rights plan, certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests.   State laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, defer, prevent, or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. For instance, they may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.   106      Table of Contents   State laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment, which may delay, defer or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders.   The following provisions, included in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, may also have anti-takeover effects and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. In particular, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws:   · permit our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock;   · divide our Board of Directors into three classes;   · limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors;   · prohibit stockholders from filling vacancies on our Board of Directors;   · prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders;   · impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at stockholder meetings and   · require the approval by the holders of at least 75% of our outstanding common stock for the amendment of our by-laws and provisions of our certificate of incorporation governing:   · the classified board,   · the director’s discretion in determining what he or she reasonably believes to be in the best interests of Principal Financial Group, Inc.,   · the liability of directors and   · the elimination of the prohibition on stockholder actions by written consent.   In addition, Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware may limit the ability of an “interested stockholder” to engage in business combinations with us. An interested stockholder is defined to include persons owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock.   Our stockholder rights plan may have anti-takeover effects. The stockholder rights plan is designed to protect our stockholders in the event of unsolicited offers to acquire us and other coercive takeover tactics, which, in the opinion of our Board of Directors, could impair the board’s ability to represent stockholder interests. Our stockholder rights plan might render an unsolicited takeover more difficult or less likely to occur, even though such a takeover might offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price and may be favored by our stockholders.   Our financial results may be adversely impacted by global climate changes.   Atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases have increased dramatically since the industrial revolution, resulting in a gradual increase in global average temperatures and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. These trends are expected to continue in the future, and have the potential to impact nearly all sectors of the economy to varying degrees. Our initial research indicates that climate change does not pose an imminent or significant threat to our operations or business, but we will continue to monitor new developments in the future.   Potential impacts may include the following:   · Changes in temperatures and air quality may adversely impact our mortality and morbidity rates. For example, increases in the level of pollution and airborne allergens may cause an increase in upper respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, leading to increased claims in our life, health and disability income business. However, the risk of increased mortality on our life insurance business is partly offset by our payout annuity business, where an increase in mortality results in a decrease in benefit payments.   · Climate change may impact asset prices, as well as general economic conditions. For example, rising sea levels may lead to decreases in real estate values in coastal areas. Additionally, government policies to slow climate change (e.g., setting limits on carbon emissions) may have an adverse impact on sectors such as utilities,    107      Table of Contents   transportation and manufacturing. Changes in asset prices may impact the value of our fixed income, real estate and commercial mortgage investments. We manage our investment risks by maintaining a well-diversified portfolio, both geographically and by sector. We also monitor our investments on an on-going basis, allowing us to adjust our exposure to sectors and/or geographical areas that face severe risks due to climate change.   · A natural disaster that affects one of our office locations could disrupt our operations and pose a threat to the safety of our employees. However, we have extensive Disaster Recovery programs in place to help mitigate this risk.   Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds