Item 1A. Risk Factors   In addition to the other information set forth in this report, consideration should be given to the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. If any of those factors were to occur, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or future results, and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements in this report. With the exception of the risk factor updates below, there have been no material changes with respect to the risk factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.   · Securities Lending Program   We have not participated in a securities lending program for our general account since December 2008 and have no current intention to do so in the future. Accordingly, we no longer consider participation in such a program to be a potential liquidity or other risk.   · Healthcare Reform   In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law. The provisions of these new laws include, among others, imposing significant new non-deductible federal premium taxes and other assessments on health insurers, limiting Medicare Advantage payment rates and reducing the Medicare Part D coverage gap, stipulating a prescribed minimum ratio for the amount of premium revenues to be expended on medical costs, guaranteed coverage requirements, elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restrictions on the extent to which policies can be rescinded and additional regulations governing premium rate increase requests. Implementation of the provisions of these new laws generally varies from as early as six months from the date of enactment to as long as 2018.   There are numerous steps required to implement these laws including, for example, regulation necessary to determine the methodology of calculating minimum ratios for medical expenditures. Further, various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level. Because of the unsettled nature of these reforms, the numerous steps required to implement them and our third quarter 2010 decision to exit the group medical insurance business over the next 36 months, we cannot predict what additional health insurance reforms will be implemented at the federal or state level or the effect that any future legislation or regulation will have on our business.   117      Table of Contents   For additional information regarding Healthcare Reform, see “Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Healthcare Reform.”   · Financial Services Regulatory Reform   On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was enacted and signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act makes extensive changes to the laws regulating financial services firms and requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act will not be known for many months or years. In addition, the legislation mandates multiple studies and reports for Congress, which could result in additional legislative or regulatory action.   It is anticipated that we will receive oversight from the Federal Reserve including various capital and liquidity requirements. It is also anticipated that we will be labeled a “Major Swap Participant” that will require more oversight of current and future derivative transactions under the separate jurisdictions of the SEC and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission. This will include trading swaps through either regulated exchanges or approved clearinghouses, and require additional collateral to support derivatives transactions.   The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations may lower the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices or otherwise adversely affect our business.   Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds