Item 1A. Risk Factors   In addition to the other information set forth in this report, consideration should be given to the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. If any of those factors were to occur, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or future results, and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements in this report. Except as described below, there have been no material changes with respect to the risk factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. The following risk factor has been updated and restated in its entirety.   We may be unable to mitigate the impact of Regulation XXX and Actuarial Guideline 38, potentially resulting in a negative impact to our capital position and/or a reduction in sales in term and universal life insurance products.   The NAIC Model Regulation entitled “Valuation of Life Insurance Policies,” commonly known as “Regulation XXX”, establishes statutory reserve requirements for term life insurance policies and universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees. Actuarial Guideline 38 (“AG38”) clarifies the application of Regulation XXX with respect to certain universal life insurance products with secondary guarantees.   The NAIC amended AG38 in 2012 in order to create more clarity around reserving practices for certain policies that are accounted for under this guideline. The effects of the changes to AG38 are two-fold:   · Reserves for certain inforce policies may be subject to additional statutory reserve minimums effective for the December 31, 2012, reporting period and   · Reserves for products designed in a specific manner and sold after January 1, 2013 will be subject to a higher statutory reserve basis.   We have implemented reinsurance transactions utilizing affiliated reinsurers to mitigate the capital impact of Regulation XXX and AG38 on our term and universal life insurance business. The NAIC has formed a Capital and Special Purpose Vehicle Use Subgroup of the Financial Condition Committee to investigate the utilization of certain affiliated reinsurance transactions and could recommend changes to criteria that permit reinsurance credit and the types of assets that can support certain portions of ceded reserves in these transactions. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to continue to utilize these transactions for reinsuring certain portions of our term and universal life insurance reserves. If we are unable to mitigate the impact of Regulation XXX and AG38 on these products, additional capital may be required to support those products, and we may be required to increase prices and/or reduce sales of our term and universal life insurance products.   The State of New York enforces AG38 through New York Regulation 147 (“Reg. 147”). The New York Department of Financial Services (“NYDFS”) implemented regulatory requirements to Reg. 147 which supported the NAIC AG38 amendment for December 31, 2012 reserve calculations, but in September 2013, the NYDFS withdrew those regulatory requirements. NYDFS has stated an intent to implement a different and more conservative interpretation of Reg. 147, which in effect would increase what we   136      Table of Contents   report in New York as reserves.   Principal Life is licensed to sell life insurance products in all 50 states, including New York. As a result, Principal Life is required to annually file a Supplement to the Life and Accident and Health Annual Statement (“Supplement”) that adjusts the statutory financial statements filed with the State of Iowa. The Supplement includes balance sheets, income statements and other key financial metrics to comply with New York’s regulations. At this time, however, we do not know the amount by which we may be required to increase reserves in the Supplement or other actions we may take in response to the interpretation New York may make of Reg. 147.   Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds