Item 1A. Risk Factors   In addition to the other information set forth in this report, consideration should be given to the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. If any of those factors were to occur, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or future results, and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements in this report. While we have not had material changes with respect to the risk factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, we are adding risk factors set out below related to our acquisition (the “Acquisition”) of the Business of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A, (the “Seller”) as discussed in Part I, Item 1. “Financial Statements, Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 16, Subsequent Event” and Part I, Item 2. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the caption “Recent Event.”   We may not complete the Acquisition within the timeframe we anticipate, or at all, which could have a negative effect on our business or our results of operations.   On April 9, 2019, we signed a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) with the Seller under which we have agreed to acquire the Business. The closing of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement (the “Closing”) is subject to a number of conditions, including, but not limited to, (i) the expiration or termination of any required waiting periods under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, (ii) the absence of any order or injunction prohibiting the Closing (or a pending proceeding brought by a governmental entity seeking to enjoin the Closing) and (iii) subject to certain exceptions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of, and compliance with covenants by, each of PFS and the Seller. These closing conditions may not be satisfied or may take longer to receive than we expect. The Acquisition is subject to other risks and uncertainties, such as the possibility that either PFS or the Seller could exercise their respective termination rights. Failure to complete the Acquisition would, and any delay in completing the Acquisition could, prevent us from realizing the benefits that we expect from the Acquisition.   We may not realize the expected benefits of the Acquisition because of integration difficulties, delays in the transfer of purchased assets and other challenges.   The success of the Acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate and operate the Business in conjunction with our existing businesses. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. The potential difficulties of integrating the operations of the Business include, among others:   · implementing our business plan for the combined business;   · unanticipated issues in integrating logistics, information, communications and other systems;   · retaining and integrating key employees of the Seller;   · retaining and growing the Business’ customers;   · timely receipt of approval from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency in order for Principal Bank, our wholly-owned subsidiary, to receive certain assets and liabilities of the Business;   · changes in applicable laws and regulations or conditions imposed by regulators;   · operating risks inherent in the Business and our existing businesses and   129      Table of Contents   · realizing revenue and expense synergies.   We may not accomplish the integration of the Business smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframe we anticipate. In particular, it is expected that the transfer to us of many of the purchased assets, including contracts with customers and vendors of the Business, will not be effectuated until sometime after the Closing (and, if the requisite consents of contractual counterparties of the Business or other third parties are not received, may not be effectuated at all). Furthermore, the Business will be reliant upon the Seller to continue to provide services to the Business for a transitional period following the Closing. Any difficulties or delays encountered in combining operations could prevent us from realizing the full benefits anticipated to result from the Acquisition and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Business may not meet our expectations, causing our financial results to differ from our own or the investment community’s expectations. It is possible that the Business may be adversely affected by regulatory, political, economic, business or competitive factors before or after the Closing, which could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition. The Acquisition may also divert our management’s attention from our current operations to the integration effort, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   The obligations and liabilities of the Seller, some of which may be unanticipated or unknown, may be greater than we have anticipated, which may diminish the value of the Business to us.   In connection with the Acquisition, we will assume certain liabilities of the Seller and its affiliates, including, among others: specified current liabilities; liabilities arising under the terms (or from the performance) of specified transferred contracts; liabilities arising out of the employment or termination of employment of employees of the Business and liabilities relating to certain purchased assets. The assumed liabilities may be greater than we have anticipated. The obligations and liabilities of the Seller could have a material adverse effect on the value of the Business to us or on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have only limited indemnification rights from the Seller under the Purchase Agreement with respect to obligations or liabilities of the Seller, whether known or unknown.   The Business may present risks that could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.   As a result of the Acquisition, we will for the first time provide trust and custody services for non-retirement plan assets of corporations, foundations, municipalities and other institutions. In addition, as a result of the Acquisition, we will expand the size of the trust and custody services we currently provide to defined contribution 401(k), defined benefit, employee stock ownership and non-qualified plans. The entry into and expansion of these business lines may present risks and uncertainties that could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. If we do not obtain all desired regulatory approvals, our ability to pursue the Business may be impaired. Moreover, even on an ongoing basis, our bank regulators will closely watch our capability to successfully manage this expansion, and they may compel remediation activities and potentially impose fines if they find our compliance to be insufficient.   Trust and custody services primarily are a fee-based business, and fees for such trust and custody services may be based on the market value of assets under management, administration or custody; the volume of transactions processed and fees for other services rendered. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital markets; weak economic conditions and/or declines in the financial markets may decrease our fee-based revenue, which may negatively impact our results of operations. The market for trust and custody business is highly competitive. In the event that competitors charge lower fees for substantially similar trust and custody services, we may face pressure to lower our prices in order to attract and retain customers, and any reductions in the fees we charge for these services may adversely affect our revenue, and, accordingly, negatively impact our results of operations.   The Business involves the risk that clients or others may sue us, claiming that we or third parties for whom they say we are responsible have failed to perform under a contract or otherwise failed to carry out a duty perceived to be owed to them, including perceived fiduciary or contractual duties. This risk may be heightened during periods when credit, equity or other financial markets are deteriorating in value or are particularly volatile, or when clients or investors are experiencing losses. Actions brought against us may result in lawsuits, enforcement actions, injunctions, settlements, damages, fines or penalties, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations or require changes to our business. These risks could result in increased regulatory supervision and affect our ability to attract and retain customers.   130      Table of Contents   Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds