ITEM 1A.Risk FactorsOur business is subject to various risks, including those described below. In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price.Reduction or delay in research and development budgets and government funding may adversely affect our revenue.A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from genomic research centers, academic institutions, government laboratories, and clinical research organizations, as well as pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrigenomics, and consumer genomics companies, and their capital spending budgets can have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. These budgets are based on a wide variety of factors, including the allocation of available resources to make purchases, funding from government sources, the spending priorities among various types of research equipment, and policies regarding capital expenditures during recessionary periods. Any decrease in capital spending or change in spending priorities of our customers could significantly reduce our revenue. Moreover, we have no control over the timing and amount of 14Table of Contentspurchases by our customers, and, as a result, revenue from these sources may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast. Any delay or reduction in purchases by our customers or our inability to forecast fluctuations in demand could harm our future operating results.The timing and amount of revenues from customers that rely on government and academic research funding may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast, and there remains significant uncertainty concerning government and academic research funding worldwide as governments in the United States and Europe, in particular, focus on reducing fiscal deficits while at the same time confronting slowing economic growth. Funding for life science research has increased more slowly during the past several years compared to previous years and has declined in some countries. Government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. Other programs, such as defense, entitlement programs, or general efforts to reduce budget deficits could be viewed by governments as a higher priority. These budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies that fund research and development activities, such as the U.S. National Institute of Health, or NIH. For instance, the significance and timing of anticipated reductions to the NIH budget from March 2013 may be significantly impacted by the sequestration provisions of the Budget Control Act of 2011 and whether these provisions remain in effect. Past proposals to reduce budget deficits have included reduced NIH and other research and development allocations. Any shift away from the funding of life sciences research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.We face intense competition, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions, or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell.We compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture, and market products for analysis of genetic variation and biological function and other applications using a wide-range of competing technologies. We anticipate that we will continue to face increased competition as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. One or more of our competitors may render our technology obsolete or uneconomical. Some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established customer base, and more experience in research and development than we do. Furthermore, life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could also develop competing products. We believe that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product; therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to potential customers who have purchased products from competitors. To the extent we are unable to be the first to develop or supply new products, our competitive position may suffer.The market for molecular diagnostics products is currently limited and highly competitive, with several large companies already having significant market share, intellectual property portfolios, and regulatory expertise. Established diagnostic companies also have an installed base of instruments in several markets, including clinical and reference laboratories, which could deter acceptance of our products. In addition, some of these companies have formed alliances with genomics companies that provide them access to genetic information that may be incorporated into their diagnostic tests.Our acquisitions expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of businesses or technologies.As part of our strategy to develop and identify new products, services, and technologies, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions of technologies, products, or businesses. Acquisitions involve numerous risks and operational, financial, and managerial challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations:•difficulties in integrating new operations, technologies, products, and personnel;•lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings;•difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations;•underperformance of any acquired technology, product, or business relative to our expectations and the price we paid;•negative near-term impacts on financial results after an acquisition, including acquisition-related earnings charges;•the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic partners of acquired companies;15Table of Contents•claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction;•the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash;•diversion of management’s attention and company resources from existing operations of the business;•inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies;•the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies; and•assumption of, or exposure to, unknown contingent liabilities or liabilities that are difficult to identify or accurately quantify.In addition, the successful integration of acquired businesses requires significant efforts and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance, legal, and information technologies. There can be no assurance that any of the acquisitions we make will be successful or will be, or will remain, profitable. Our failure to successfully address the above risks may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a reasonable time frame, or at all.Our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function.We design our products primarily for applications in the life sciences, diagnostic, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries. The usefulness of our technologies depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. We are focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function, namely sequencing, genotyping, and gene expression profiling. These markets are new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their full potential. Other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. Also, researchers may not be able to successfully analyze raw genetic data or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information. For instance, demand for our microarray products may be adversely affected if researchers fail to find meaningful correlations between genetic variation, such as SNPs, and disease susceptibility through genome wide association studies. In addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. If useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect, and we may not be able to sustain profitability.If the quality of our products does not meet our customers’ expectations, then our reputation could suffer and ultimately our sales and operating earnings could be negatively impacted.In the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. Because our instruments and consumables are highly complex, the occurrence of defects may increase as we continue to introduce new products and services and as we scale up manufacturing to meet increased demand for our products and services. Although we have established internal procedures to minimize risks that may arise from product quality issues, there can be no assurance that we will be able to eliminate or mitigate occurrences of these issues and associated liabilities. In addition, identifying the root cause of quality issues, particularly those affecting reagents and third-party components, may be difficult, which increases the time needed to address quality issues as they arise and increases the risk that similar problems could recur. Finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive, and we may incur significant costs or lost revenue in connection with, for example, shipment holds, product recalls, and warranty or other service obligations. In addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand image, and our reputation as a producer of high quality products could suffer, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.Our continued growth is dependent on continuously developing and commercializing new products.Our target markets are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, existing and emerging competition, strong price competition, and frequent new product introductions. Accordingly, our continued growth depends on continuously developing and commercializing new products and services, including improving 16Table of Contentsour existing products and services, in order to address evolving market requirements on a timely basis. If we fail to innovate or adequately invest in new technologies, our products and services will become dated, and we could lose our competitive position in the markets that we serve as customers purchase new products offered by our competitors. We believe that successfully introducing new products and technologies in our target markets on a timely basis provides a significant competitive advantage because customers make an investment of time in selecting and learning to use a new product and may be reluctant to switch once that selection is made.To the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products, or such products are not accepted in the market or suffer significant delays in development, we may lose market share to our competitors, which will be difficult or impossible to regain. An inability, for technological or other reasons, to develop successfully and timely introduce new products could reduce our growth rate or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. In the past, we have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, delays in the development and introduction of new products. There can be no assurance that we will keep pace with the rapid rate of change in our markets or that our new products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, achieve market acceptance, or compete successfully with competing technologies. Some of the factors affecting market acceptance of new products and services include:•availability, quality, and price relative to competing products and services;•the functionality and performance of new and existing products and services;•the timing of introduction of new products or services relative to competing products and services;•scientists’ and customers’ opinions of the utility of new products or services;•citation of new products or services in published research;•regulatory trends and approvals; and •general trends in life sciences research and applied markets.We may also have to write off excess or obsolete inventory if sales of our products are not consistent with our expectations or the market requirements for our products change due to technical innovations in the marketplace.If we do not successfully manage the development, manufacturing, and launch of new products or services, including product transitions, our financial results could be adversely affected.We face risks associated with launching new products and pre-announcing products and services when the products or services have not been fully developed or tested. If our products and services are not able to deliver the performance or results expected by our target markets or are not delivered on a timely basis, our reputation and credibility may suffer. If we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our products late in our development cycle, we may delay the product launch date. In addition, we may experience difficulty in managing or forecasting customer reactions, purchasing decisions, or transition requirements or programs (such as trade-in programs) with respect to newly launched products (or products in development) relative to our existing products, which could adversely affect sales of our existing products. The expenses or losses associated with unsuccessful product development or launch activities or lack of market acceptance of our new products could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.We depend on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for components and materials used in our products, and if shipments from these manufacturers or suppliers are delayed or interrupted, or if the quality of the components or materials supplied do not meet our requirements, we may not be able to launch, manufacture, or ship our products in a timely manner, or at all.The complex nature of our products requires customized, precision-manufactured components and materials that currently are available from a limited number of sources, and, in the case of some components and materials, from only a single source. If deliveries from these vendors are delayed or interrupted for any reason, or if we are otherwise unable to secure a sufficient supply, we may not be able to obtain these components or materials on a timely basis or in sufficient quantities or qualities, or at all, in order to meet demand for our products. We may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, or develop these capabilities internally, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities, or on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, the lead time needed to establish a relationship with a new supplier can be lengthy, and we may experience delays in meeting demand in the event we must switch to a new supplier. The time and effort required to qualify a new supplier could result in additional costs, diversion of resources, or reduced manufacturing yields, any of which would negatively impact our operating results. Accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially 17Table of Contentsreasonable costs or at all. In addition, the manufacture or shipment of our products may be delayed or interrupted if the quality of the components or materials supplied by our vendors does not meet our requirements. Current or future social and environmental regulations or critical issues, such as those relating to the sourcing of conflict minerals from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or the need to eliminate environmentally sensitive materials from our products, could restrict the supply of components and materials used in production or increase our costs. Any delay or interruption to our manufacturing process or in shipping our products could result in lost revenue, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals.We are highly dependent on our management and scientific personnel, including Jay Flatley, our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. In addition, the continued growth of our business depends on our ability to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, sales, marketing, and technical support. We compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science companies, universities, and research institutions, particularly those focusing on genomics. Competition for these individuals, particularly in the San Diego and San Francisco area, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. Failure to attract and retain management and scientific personnel would prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies. Additionally, integration of acquired companies and businesses can be disruptive, causing key employees of the acquired business to leave. Further, we use stock options and restricted stock units to attract key personnel, incentivize them to remain with us, and align their interests with those of the Company by building long-term stockholder value. If our stock price decreases, the value of these equity awards decreases and therefore reduces a key employee’s incentive to stay.If we are unable to increase our manufacturing capacity and develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all.We continue to rapidly increase our manufacturing capacity to meet the anticipated demand for our products. Although we have significantly increased our manufacturing capacity and we believe we have plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our current business plans, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing capabilities, and we may not be able to sufficiently increase our capacity in a timely manner. For example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facilities and launch new products. Also, we may not manufacture the right product mix to meet customer demand, especially as we introduce new products. As a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator, and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline. Additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions and quality control issues that have temporarily reduced or suspended production of certain products. Due to the intricate nature of manufacturing complex instruments, consumables, and products that contain DNA, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products (or to produce them economically), prevent us from achieving expected performance levels, or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by customers.Additionally, we currently manufacture in a limited number of locations. Our manufacturing facilities are located in San Diego and Hayward, California; Madison, Wisconsin; Singapore; and Cambridge, United Kingdom. These areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, or floods. If a natural disaster were to damage one of our facilities significantly or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, we may be unable to manufacture our products, provide our services, or develop new products.Also, many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed laboratory information management system (LIMS). Additionally, the decoding process in our array manufacturing requires significant network and storage infrastructure. If either our LIMS system or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, it may adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and could prevent us from achieving our expected shipments in any given period.Any inability to effectively protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position.Our success depends to a large extent on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the United States and other countries. If we do not protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may be able to use our technologies and thereby erode our competitive advantage. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and 18Table of Contentsmany companies have encountered significant challenges in establishing and enforcing their proprietary rights outside of the United States. These challenges can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights outside of the United States.The proprietary positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences, genomics, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries, including our proprietary position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We intend to apply for patents covering our technologies and products as we deem appropriate. However, our patent applications may be challenged and may not result in issued patents or may be invalidated or narrowed in scope after they are issued. Questions as to inventorship or ownership may also arise. Any finding that our patents or applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship or ownership rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Furthermore, as issued patents expire, we may lose some competitive advantage as others develop competing products, and, as a result, we may lose revenue.In addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and may therefore fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third party claims, which would be expensive, and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. Furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. There is also the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. In that regard, certain patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents issue, and publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months.We also rely upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how protection for our confidential and proprietary information, and we have taken security measures to protect this information. These measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other confidential information. Among other things, we seek to protect our trade secrets and confidential information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators, and consultants. There can be no assurance that any confidentiality agreements that we have with our employees, collaborators, and consultants will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and confidential information or will provide adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. Accordingly, there also can be no assurance that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors.Litigation, other proceedings, or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services.Our success depends, in part, on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. As we enter new markets or introduce new products, we expect that competitors will likely claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful competition. In addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents. We could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims. Any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in defending ourselves against these claims could have an adverse impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate to the actual import of the ruling itself. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to develop further, commercialize, or sell products or services, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a successful infringement claim against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products or services. In addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. We could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins. In addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products or services could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain profitability.Our products, if used for the diagnosis of disease, could be subject to government regulation, and the regulatory approval and maintenance process for such products may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain both in timing and in outcome.19Table of ContentsProducts are not subject to FDA clearance or approval if they are not intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease. However, as we expand our product line to encompass products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease, certain of our products will become subject to regulation by the FDA, or comparable agencies of other countries, including requirements for regulatory clearance or approval of such products before they can be marketed. Such regulatory approval processes or clearances may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain, and our failure to obtain or comply with such approvals and clearances could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. In addition, changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products, which may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain FDA or comparable regulatory approval of our products, if required.Molecular diagnostic products, in particular, depending on their intended use, may be regulated as medical devices by the FDA and comparable agencies of other countries and may require either receiving clearance from the FDA following a pre-market notification process or premarket approval from the FDA, in each case prior to marketing. Obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals can be expensive and may involve considerable delay. If we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals for molecular diagnostic products that we develop, we may not be able to launch or successfully commercialize such products in a timely manner, or at all.In addition, the regulatory approval or clearance process required to design, manufacture, market, sell, and support our existing and future products that are intended for, and marketed and labeled as, “Research Use Only,” or RUO, is uncertain if such products are used or could be used, even without our consent, for the diagnosis of disease. If the FDA or other regulatory authorities assert that any of our RUO products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.Doing business internationally creates operational and financial risks for our business.Conducting and launching operations on an international scale requires close coordination of activities across multiple jurisdictions and time zones and consumes significant management resources. If we fail to coordinate and manage these activities effectively, including the risks noted below, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. We are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets. We have sales offices located internationally throughout Europe, the Asia-Pacific region, and Brazil, as well as manufacturing facilities in the United Kingdom and Singapore. During 2012, the majority of our sales to international customers were denominated in foreign currencies while the majority of our purchases of raw materials from international suppliers were denominated in U.S. dollars. Shipments to customers outside the United States comprised 51%, 50%, and 45% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. We intend to continue to expand our international presence by selling to customers located outside of the United States and we expect the total amount of non-U.S. sales to continue to grow.International sales entail a variety of risks, including: •longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the United States;•longer sales cycles due to the volume of transactions taking place through public tenders;•currency exchange fluctuations; •challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; •tariffs and other trade barriers; •unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we sell our products;•difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and•significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws.Changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we are able sell products in the same market. Our revenues from international customers may be negatively impacted as increases in the U.S. dollar relative to our international customers local currency could make our products more expensive, impacting our ability to compete. Our costs of materials from international suppliers may increase if in order to continue doing business with us they raise their prices as the value of the U.S. dollar decreases relative to their local currency. Foreign policies and actions regarding currency valuation could result in actions by the United States and other countries to offset the effects of such fluctuations. The recent global financial downturn 20Table of Contentshas led to a high level of volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and that level of volatility may continue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.We are subject to risks related to taxation in multiple jurisdictions.We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required in determining the provision for income taxes. Our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in existing tax laws or tax rates, changes in the level of non-deductible expenses (including share-based compensation), changes in our future levels of research and development spending, mergers and acquisitions, or the result of examinations by various tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken by the Company on its tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. If material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.An inability to manage our growth or the expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.Our business has grown rapidly, with total revenues increasing from $73.5 million for the year ended January 1, 2006 to $1.15 billion for the year ended December 30, 2012 and with the number of employees increasing from 375 to approximately 2,400 during the same period. We expect to continue to experience substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans. The continued global expansion of our business and addition of new personnel may place a strain on our management and operational systems. Our ability to effectively manage our operations and growth requires us to continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, financial, and management controls, reporting systems, and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees on a global basis. If we are unable to scale up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available the products required to successfully commercialize our technology. Our future operating results will depend on the ability of our management to continue to implement and improve our research, product development, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and customer support programs, enhance our operational and financial control systems, expand, train, and manage our employee base, integrate acquired businesses, and effectively address new issues related to our growth as they arise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our recent or any future expansion or acquisition successfully, and any inability to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, and we may not be able to sustain operating profitability.Our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services, the effects of new product launches and related promotions, the timing and availability of our customers’ funding, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. Given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. While we anticipate future growth, there is some uncertainty as to the timing of revenue recognition on a quarterly basis. This is because a substantial portion of our quarterly revenue is typically recognized in the last month of a quarter and because the pattern for revenue generation during that month is normally not linear, with a concentration of orders in the final week of the quarter. In light of that, our revenue cut-off and recognition procedures, together with our manufacturing and shipping operations, may experience increased pressure and demand during the time period shortly before the end of a fiscal quarter.A large portion of our expenses are relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment, and personnel. In addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly in absolute dollars, and we expect that our research and development and selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the development and launch of new products. Accordingly, our ability to sustain profitability will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses, and if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual or quarterly profitability. Any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. In addition, non-cash share-based compensation expense and expenses related to prior and future acquisitions are also likely to continue to adversely affect our future profitability. Due to the 21Table of Contentspossibility of significant fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, particularly from quarter to quarter, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. If our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline.From time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. The timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in net sales. As a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue.Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition.Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment and fair value determinations, inventories, business combinations and intangible asset valuations, and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition.Ethical, legal, and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our products or services.Our products may be used to provide genetic information about humans, agricultural crops, and other living organisms. The information obtained from our products could be used in a variety of applications, which may have underlying ethical, legal, and social concerns regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information, including preimplantation genetic screening of embryos, prenatal genetic testing, genetic engineering or modification of agricultural products, or testing genetic predisposition for certain medical conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. Governmental authorities could, for social or other purposes, call for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. Similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests even if permissible. These and other ethical, legal, and social concerns about genetic testing may limit market acceptance of our technology for certain applications or reduce the potential markets for our technology, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.Our strategic equity investments may result in losses.We periodically make strategic equity investments in various public and private companies with businesses or technologies that may complement our business. The market values of these strategic equity investments may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which we have no control. Other-than-temporary declines in the market price and valuations of the securities that we hold in other companies would require us to record losses in proportion to our ownership interest. This could result in future charges to our earnings. It is uncertain whether or not we will realize any long-term benefits associated with these strategic investments.Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information, and that of our customers, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure maintenance of this information is important to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. Any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and damage to our reputation. Conversion of our outstanding convertible notes may result in losses. As of December 30, 2012, we had $40 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2014 and $920 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2016 outstanding. The notes are convertible into cash, and if applicable, shares of our common stock under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common 22Table of Contentsstock. If the trading price of our common stock remains significantly above the conversion price of $21.83 per share with respect to convertible notes due 2014 and $83.55 with respect to convertible notes due 2016, we expect that the noteholders will elect to convert the applicable notes. Upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the notes to be extinguished and their corresponding net carrying value. The fair value of the notes to be extinguished depends on our current incremental borrowing rate. The net carrying value of our notes has an implicit interest rate of 8.3% with respect to convertible notes due 2014 and 4.5% with respect to convertible notes due 2016. If our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws include anti-takeover provisions that may make it difficult for another company to acquire control of us or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could delay the removal of incumbent directors and could make it more difficult to successfully complete a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us. These provisions include our Preferred Shares Rights Agreement, commonly known as a “poison pill” and provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation that give our Board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, the staggered terms of our board of directors could have the effect of delaying or deferring a change in control. In addition, certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”), including Section 203 of the DGCL, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of Illumina. Section 203 of the DGCL provides, with certain exceptions, for waiting periods applicable to business combinations with stockholders owning at least 15% and less than 85% of the voting stock (exclusive of stock held by directors, officers, and employee plans) of a company.The above factors may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of Illumina, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock.ITEM 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments.