Item 1A. Risk Factors and Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements, and the Company’s other reports filed with the SEC.  81    Table of Contents     PART II. OTHER INFORMATION     ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  The Company and its subsidiaries are involved in a number of legal proceedings concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of their respective business activities, and are periodically subject to governmental examinations (including by regulatory and tax authorities), information gathering requests, subpoenas, inquiries and investigations (collectively “governmental examinations”). As of September 30, 2010, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries were named as a defendant or were otherwise involved in numerous legal proceedings and governmental examinations in various jurisdictions, both in the United States and internationally.  The Company’s legal proceedings range from cases brought by a single plaintiff to class actions with hundreds of thousands of putative class members. These legal proceedings, as well as governmental examinations, involve various lines of business of the Company and a variety of claims (including, but not limited to, common law tort, contract, antitrust and consumer protection claims), some of which present novel factual allegations and/or unique legal theories. While some matters pending against the Company specify the damages claimed by the plaintiff, many seek a not-yet-quantified amount of damages or are at very early stages of the legal process. Even when the amount of damages claimed against the Company are stated, the claimed amount may be exaggerated and/or unsupported.  Based on its current knowledge, after taking into consideration its current litigation-related liabilities, the Company believes it is not a party to, nor are any of its properties the subject of, any pending legal proceeding or governmental examination that would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition or liquidity. However, in light of the uncertainties involved in such matters, the ultimate outcome of a particular matter could be material to the Company’s operating results for a particular period depending on, among other factors, the size of the loss or liability imposed and the level of the Company’s income for that period.  Certain legal proceedings involving the Company are described below. For a discussion of certain other legal proceedings involving the Company and its subsidiaries, please refer to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31 and June 30, 2010.  Corporate Matters  During the last few years as regulatory interest in credit card network pricing to merchants and related issues has increased, the Company has responded to many inquiries from banking and competition authorities throughout the world. In October 2008, the Company received a Civil Investigative Demand (“CID”) from the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”). Pursuant to the CID, the DOJ requested the production of documents and information regarding the Company’s policies relating to merchant surcharging and its “anti-steering” policies that prohibit merchants from discriminating against American Express cards in favor of other forms of payment. The Company cooperated with the DOJ’s request. The Company had also received a similar civil investigative demand from the attorney general of the state of Ohio.  On October 4, 2010, the DOJ, along with Attorneys General from Connecticut, Iowa, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, Ohio and Texas, filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, against the Company, MasterCard International Incorporated and Visa, Inc., alleging a violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Antitrust Act. The complaint alleges that the defendants’ policies prohibiting merchants from steering a customer to use another network’s card, another type of card or another method of payment (“anti-steering” and “non-discrimination” rules) violate the antitrust laws. The complaint alleges that the defendants participate in two distinct markets, a “General Purpose Card network services market,” and a “General Purpose Card network services market for merchants in  82    Table of Contents  travel and entertainment (“T&E”) businesses.” The complaint contends that each of the defendants has market power in the alleged two markets. The complaint seeks a judgment permanently enjoining the defendants from enforcing their anti-steering and non-discrimination rules. The complaint does not seek monetary damages. Concurrent with the filing of the complaint, the plaintiffs and Visa and MasterCard announced they had reached an agreement settling the complaint against them by agreeing to modifications in their rules prohibiting merchants that accept their cards from steering customers to use another network’s card, another type of card or another method of payment.  In February 2010, a putative class action captioned Patzke, Knauss and Amick v. American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc., was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona. The complaint seeks to recover allegedly unpaid wages and overtime compensation for a class of employees at the Company’s call centers. The Company filed a motion to have the Patzke action transferred to North Carolina. This motion to transfer was denied. The Company has since filed a motion to compel arbitration which is currently pending.  On February 20, 2009, a putative class action captioned, Brozovich v. American Express Co., Kenneth I. Chenault and Daniel T. Henry, was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The lawsuit alleged violations of the federal securities laws in connection with certain alleged misstatements regarding the credit quality of the Company’s credit card customers. The purported class covered the period from March 1, 2007 to November 12, 2008. The action sought unspecified damages and costs and fees. The Brozovich action was subsequently voluntarily dismissed. In March 2009, a putative class action, captioned Baydale v. American Express Co., Kenneth I. Chenault and Daniel Henry, which made similar allegations to those made in the Brozovich action, was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. In October 2009, the plaintiff in the Baydale action filed an Amended Consolidated Class Action Complaint in the action. The Company filed a motion to dismiss with the Court. On July 19, 2010, the Court granted the Company’s motion to dismiss and dismissed the complaint in its entirety. The plaintiff has filed a Notice of Appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.  U.S. Card Services and Global Merchant Services Matters  In September 2010, a putative class action, captioned Meeks v. American Express Centurion Bank, was filed in Fulton County Superior Court, Georgia. In October 2010, the Company removed the matter to federal court. The complaint alleges that plaintiff opened an account in 2005 with an interest rate of prime plus an additional marginal rate of 2.99%. Plaintiff contends that he was promised that the marginal rate would remain fixed. Plaintiff alleges that beginning in December 2008 the marginal rate began to increase. Plaintiff asserts claims for breach of contract, covenant of good faith and fair dealing, unconscionability, unjust enrichment and duress. Plaintiff seeks to certify a nationwide class of all American Express cardmembers who received unilateral interest rate increases despite their accounts being in good standing.  In October 2009, a putative class action, captioned Lopez, et al. v. American Express Bank, FSB and American Express Centurion Bank, was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The complaint seeks to certify a nationwide class of American Express cardmembers whose interest rates were changed from fixed to variable in or around August 2009 or otherwise increases. American Express filed a motion to compel arbitration, and plaintiff has amended their complaint to limit the class to California residents only. The Company filed a revised motion to compel arbitration and a motion to dismiss the amended complaint. Both motions were denied by the Court. Subsequently, in response to a request by the Company, the Court stayed the action pending the outcome of a case captioned AT&T Mobility v. Concepcion, which is pending before the U.S. Supreme Court and may impact the question of whether the Company’s motion to compel arbitration should have been granted.  83    Table of Contents  In June 2006, a putative class action captioned Homa v. American Express Company et al. was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. The case alleges, generally, misleading and fraudulent advertising of the “tiered” “up to 5 percent” cash rebates with the Blue Cash card. The complaint initially sought certification of a nationwide class consisting of “all persons who applied for and received an American Express Blue Cash card during the period from September 30, 2003 to the present and who did not get the rebate or rebates provided for in the offer.” On December 1, 2006, however, plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint dropping the nationwide class claims and asserting claims only on behalf of New Jersey residents who “while so residing in New Jersey, applied for and received an American Express Blue Cash card during the period from September 30, 2003 to the present.” The plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other unspecified relief that the Court deems appropriate. In May 2007, the Court granted the Company’s motion to compel individual arbitration and dismissed the complaint. Plaintiff appealed that decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, and in February 2009, the Third Circuit reversed the decision and remanded the case back to the District Court for further proceedings. In October 2009, a putative class action captioned Pagsolingan v. American Express Company, et al. was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. That case made allegations that were largely similar to those made in Homa, except that Pagsolingan alleged multiple theories of liability and sought to certify a nationwide class of “[a]ll persons who applied for and received an American Express Blue Cash card during the period from September 30, 2003 to the present and who did not get the rebate or rebates provided for in the offer.” In May 2010, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed the Pagsolingan case in its entirety. Subsequently, in response to a request by the Company, the Court stayed the Homa action pending the outcome of the case AT&T Mobility v. Concepcion, which is pending before the U.S. Supreme Court and may impact the question of whether the Company’s motion to compel arbitration should have been granted.  In July 2004, a purported class action captioned Ross et al. v. American Express Company, American Express Travel Related Services and American Express Centurion Bank was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint alleges that American Express conspired with Visa, MasterCard and Diners Club in the setting of foreign currency conversion rates and in the inclusion of arbitration clauses in certain of their cardmember agreements. The suit seeks injunctive relief and unspecified damages. The class is defined as “all Visa, MasterCard and Diners Club general-purpose cardholders who used cards issued by any of the MDL Defendant Banks.” American Express cardholders are not part of the class. In September 2005, the Court denied the Company’s motion to dismiss the action and preliminarily certified an injunction class of Visa and MasterCard cardholders to determine the validity of Visa’s and MasterCard’s cardmember arbitration clauses. American Express filed a motion for reconsideration with the District Court, which motion was denied in September 2006. The Company filed an appeal from the District Court’s order denying its motion to compel arbitration. In October 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit denied the Company’s appeal and remanded the case to the District Court for further proceedings. In January 2010, the Court (1) certified a damage class of all Visa, MasterCard and Diners Club general purpose cardholders who used cards issued by any of the alleged co-conspiring banks during the period July 22, 2000 to November 8, 2006, and who were assessed a foreign exchange transaction fee or surcharge and who have submitted valid claims in In re Currency Conversion Antitrust Litigation, and (2) denied American Express’ motion to amend its answer to add the affirmative defense of release. In June 2010, the Company filed a motion for summary judgment with the Court, which seeks dismissal of plaintiff’s complaint, and that motion is pending.  The Company is a defendant in a putative class action captioned Kaufman v. American Express Travel Related Services, pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The allegations in Kaufman relate primarily to monthly service fee charges in respect of the Company’s gift card products, with the principal claim being that the Company’s gift cards violate consumer protection statutes because consumers allegedly have difficulty spending small residual amounts on the gift cards prior to the imposition of monthly service fees. In January 2009, the Company signed a Memorandum of Understanding to resolve these claims. Since such time, the parties have entered into a settlement  84    Table of Contents  agreement that was submitted to the Court for preliminary approval. The proposed Settlement Class consists of “all purchasers, recipients and holders of all gift cards issued by American Express from January 1, 2002 through the date of preliminary approval of the Settlement, including without limitation, gift cards sold at physical retail locations, via the internet, or through mall co-branded programs.” Under the terms of the proposed settlement, in addition to certain non-monetary relief, the Company would pay $3 million into a settlement fund. Members of the settlement class would then be entitled to submit claims against the settlement fund to receive refunds of certain gift card fees, and any monies remaining in the settlement fund after payment of all claims would be paid to charity. In addition, the Company would make available to the settlement class for a period of time the opportunity to buy gift cards with no purchase fee. Finally, the Company would be responsible for paying class counsel’s reasonable fees and expenses and certain expenses of administering the class settlement. The Company is also a defendant in two other putative class actions making allegations similar to those made in Kaufman: Goodman v. American Express Travel Related Services, pending in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, and Jarratt v. American Express Company, filed in California state court in San Diego. If the court ultimately approves the proposed settlement in Kaufman, all related gift card claims and actions would also be released. In August 2010, in response to objections by plaintiffs in certain of the other pending cases, the Kaufman court partially granted and partially denied approval of the settlement. The Company has filed a motion for reconsideration of the portion of the court’s decision partially denying approval of the settlement, and that motion is pending.  International Matters  In November 2006, in a matter captioned Sylvan Adams v. Amex Bank of Canada filed in the Superior Court of Quebec, District of Montreal (originally filed in November 2004), the Court authorized a class action against Amex Bank of Canada. The plaintiff alleges that prior to December 2003, Amex Bank of Canada charged a foreign currency conversion commission on transactions to purchase goods and services in currencies other than Canadian dollars and failed to disclose the commissions in monthly billing statements or solicitations directed to prospective cardmembers. The class, consisting of all Cardmembers in Quebec that purchased goods or services in a foreign currency prior to December 2003, claims reimbursement of all foreign currency conversion commissions, CDN$1,000 in punitive damages per class member, interest and fees and costs. The trial in the Adams action commenced, and was completed, in December 2008 after the conclusion of the trial in the Marcotte action. The Court rendered a judgment in favor of the plaintiffs against Amex Bank of Canada on June 11, 2009, and awarded damages in the amount of CDN$11.2 million plus interest on the non-disclosure claims. In addition, the Court awarded punitive damages in the amount of CDN$2.2 million. The judgment has been appealed by Amex Bank of Canada. The appeal is scheduled to be heard by the Quebec Court of Appeal in September 2011.  In May 2006, in a matter captioned Marcotte v. Bank of Montreal et al., filed in the Superior Court of Quebec, District of Montreal (originally filed in April 2003) the Court authorized a class action against Amex Bank of Canada, Bank of Montreal, Toronto-Dominion Bank, Royal Bank of Canada, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Scotiabank, National Bank of Canada, Laurentian Bank of Canada and Citibank Canada. The action alleges that conversion commissions made on foreign currency transactions are credit charges under the Quebec Consumer Protection Act (the QCPA) and cannot be charged prior to the 21-day grace period under the QCPA. The class includes all persons holding a credit card issued by one of the defendants to whom fees were charged since April 17, 2000, for transactions made in foreign currency before expiration of the period of 21 days following the statement of account. The class claims reimbursement of all foreign currency conversions, CDN$400 per class member for trouble, inconvenience and punitive damages, interest and fees and costs. The trial in the Marcotte action commenced in September 2008 and was completed in November. The Court rendered a judgment in favor of the plaintiffs against Amex Bank of Canada on June 11, 2009, and awarded damages in the amount of CDN$7.1 million plus interest on the QCPA claims and individual claims to be made on the non-disclosure claims. In addition, the Court awarded punitive damages in the amount of CDN$21.52 per cardmember. The judgment has been appealed by all banks, including Amex Bank of Canada. The appeal is scheduled to be heard by the Quebec Court of Appeal in September 2011. 85    Table of Contents     ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  This section supplements and updates certain of the information found under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of each of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 (the “2009 Form 10-K”) and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010 (the “2010 First and Second Quarter Forms 10-Q”), and should be read in conjunction with the discussion of risk factors set forth in such sections. Based on the information currently known to the Company, it believes that the matters discussed below, together with the risk factors set forth in the 2009 Form 10-K and the 2010 First and Second Quarter Forms 10-Q, identify the most significant risk factors affecting the Company. However, the risks and uncertainties that the Company faces are not limited to those described below and those set forth in the 2009 Form 10-K and the 2010 First and Second Quarter Forms 10-Q. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect the Company’s business and the trading price of its securities.   Risk Factor   Ongoing legal proceedings regarding the Company’s “anti-steering” and surcharging policies could require changes to those policies that could result in a material loss of revenue or increased expenses, substantial monetary judgments and/or damage to the Company’s global reputation and brand.   The Department of Justice (DOJ) and certain state attorneys general have recently brought an action against the Company alleging that the Company’s “anti-steering” policies that prohibit merchants from discriminating against the Company’s card products in favor of other forms of payment at the point of sale violate the U.S. antitrust laws. Visa and Mastercard are also defendants in this proceeding, but they have agreed to settle the complaint. In addition, the Company and its competitor networks are defendants in a number of actions, including class actions, filed by merchants that challenge both the Company’s and its competitors’ anti-steering policies as well as surcharging policies. A description of these legal proceedings is contained in “Legal Proceedings” above. An adverse outcome in any of these proceedings against the Company could materially and adversely impact the profitability of the Company, require it to change its policies in a way that could expose the Company’s card products to steering or other forms of discrimination at the point of sale, result in the imposition of substantial monetary damages and/or damage the Company’s global reputation and brand. Even if the Company were not required to change its policies, changes in policies agreed to by Visa and Mastercard pursuant to their settlement agreement with the DOJ and state attorneys general, or other changes to their policies or practices as a result of the proceedings brought by merchants against them, could subject the Company to market pressures that force it to make certain changes to its own policies and practices, which could materially and adversely impact its profitability.  86    Table of Contents     ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS