ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  This section supplements and updates certain of the information found under Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 (the 2011 Form 10-K) and Part II, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 (the Second Quarter Form 10-Q) and should be read in conjunction with the discussion of risk factors set forth in such sections. Based on the information currently known to the Company, it believes that the matter discussed below, together with the risk factors set forth in the 2011 Form 10-K and the Second Quarter Form 10-Q, identify the most significant risk factors affecting the Company. However, the risks and uncertainties that the Company faces are not limited to those described below and those set forth in the 2011 Form 10-K and the Second Quarter Form 10-Q. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect the Company’s business and the trading price of its securities.  An increasing prevalence of credit card surcharging by merchants could materially adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations.  The Company’s card acceptance agreements with merchants generally do not prohibit surcharging so long as it is permitted by law and a merchant does not discriminate against American Express cards by surcharging higher amounts on purchases with American Express cards than on purchases with other cards, or by imposing a surcharge only on American Express card purchases, but not on purchases made with other cards. There are certain countries in which surcharging is specifically permitted, such as Australia and certain countries in the European Union. In Australia, the Company has seen selective, but increasing, merchant surcharging on American Express cards in certain merchant categories and, in some cases, on a basis that is greater than that applied to cards issued on the bankcard networks. New rules issued by the Reserve Bank of Australia in 2012 allow the Company and other networks to prohibit merchants from surcharging by more than their reasonable costs of accepting a particular payment card. This could lead to an increase in higher surcharges on American Express cards when compared to other card issuers. In addition, the proposed settlement by MasterCard and Visa in the current U.S. merchant class litigation would, among other things, require MasterCard and Visa to permit U.S. merchants, subject to certain conditions, to surcharge credit cards.  If surcharging becomes widespread, American Express cards and credit and charge cards generally could become less desirable to consumers, which could result in a decrease in transaction volumes. The impact could vary depending on the manner in which a surcharge is levied and whether surcharges are levied upon all payment cards, whether debit cards are excluded, or whether the amount of the surcharge varies depending on the card, network, acquirer or issuer. Surcharging could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly to the extent surcharging disproportionately impacts American Express cardmembers because merchants surcharge American Express cards more than other credit cards.    83    Table of Contents ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS