ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  This section supplements and updates certain of the information found under Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of our 2014 Form 10-K and should be read in conjunction with the discussion of risk factors set forth in such section. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the matter discussed below, together with the risk factors set forth in the 2014 Form 10-K, identify the most significant risk factors affecting our company. However, the risks and uncertainties that we face are not limited to those described below and those set forth in the 2014 Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business and the trading price of our securities.    77    Table of Contents Ongoing legal proceedings regarding provisions in our merchant contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, result in additional litigation and/or arbitrations, subject us to substantial monetary damages and damage to our reputation and brand.  The DOJ and certain states’ attorneys general brought an action against us alleging that the provisions in our card acceptance agreements with merchants that prohibit merchants from discriminating against our card products at the point of sale violate the U.S. antitrust laws. Visa and MasterCard, which were also defendants in the DOJ and state action, entered into a settlement agreement and have been dismissed as parties pursuant to that agreement, which was approved by the court. The settlement enjoins Visa and MasterCard from entering into contracts that prohibit merchants from engaging in various actions to steer cardholders to other card products or payment forms at the point of sale. On February 19, 2015, the trial court found that the challenged provisions in American Express card acceptance agreements were anticompetitive and on April 30, 2015 issued an injunction prohibiting us from enforcing certain elements of such provisions. The trial and appellate courts denied our request for a stay of the injunction and the injunction became effective on July 20, 2015. As a result, our card products are exposed to the possibility of increased merchant steering and other forms of discrimination that could impair the Card Member experience during the pendency of our appeal and potentially thereafter. We are vigorously pursuing an appeal of the decision and judgment. In addition, we are a defendant in a number of actions and arbitration proceedings, including proposed class actions, filed by merchants that challenge the non-discrimination and honor-all-cards provisions in our card acceptance agreements and seek damages. In December 2013, we agreed to settle the merchant class actions and the settlement agreement has been preliminarily approved by the court. There can be no assurance that the court will grant final approval of the settlement agreement, which can be impacted by objections to the settlement agreement by plaintiffs and other parties, as well as by the appeals process in the DOJ case. A description of these legal proceedings is contained in “Legal Proceedings” above.  The adverse decision and injunction in the DOJ case and future adverse outcomes in these proceedings against us (including an adverse final judgment following appeal in the DOJ case) could have a material adverse effect on our business, result in additional litigation and/or arbitrations, subject us to substantial monetary damages and damage our reputation and brand.    78    Table of Contents ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS