ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  The statements in this Section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Our disclosure and analysis in this 2010 Form 10-K and in our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will,” “target,” “forecast” and similar expressions or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, business plans or prospects, in-line products and product candidates, and share-repurchase and dividend-rate plans. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results.  We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements and you are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements.  We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures   we make on related subjects in our 10-Q and 8-K reports to the SEC. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.  Healthcare Reform  As mentioned earlier, the ACA was enacted by Congress in March 2010 and its provisions are effective on various dates over the next several years. We expect that the rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs over time will have a significant effect on our expenses and profitability in the future. See the discussion under U.S. Healthcare Legislation in our 2010 Financial Report. Furthermore, the IPAB created by the ACA, to reduce the per capita rate of growth in Medicare spending, could potentially limit access to certain treatments or mandate price controls for our products. Moreover, expanded government investigative authority may increase the costs of compliance with new negotiations and programs. We also face the uncertainties that might result from any modification, repeal or invalidation of any of the provisions of the ACA.  Government Regulation and Managed Care Trends  U.S. and foreign governmental regulations mandating price controls and limitations on patient access to our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations. In the U.S., many of our biopharmaceutical products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. Such pressures have increased as the result of the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector plans that negotiate on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries. In addition, if the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act or the ACA were amended to impose direct governmental price controls and access restrictions, it would have a significant adverse     20    Table of Contents   impact on our business. Furthermore, MCOs, as well as Medicaid and other government agencies, continue to seek price discounts. Some states have implemented, and other states are considering, price controls or patient-access constraints under the Medicaid program and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not Medicaid eligible. Other matters also could be the subject of U.S. federal or state legislative or regulatory action that could adversely affect our business, including changes in patent laws, the importation of prescription drugs from outside the U.S. at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries, restrictions on U.S. direct-to-consumer advertising or limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals and the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines.  The prohibition on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of erectile dysfunction medications by the Medicaid program, which became effective January 1, 2006, and the similar federal funding prohibition for the Medicare Part D program, which became effective January 1, 2007, has had an adverse effect on our business. Any prohibitions on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of other classes of drugs in the future may also have an adverse effect.  We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. In Europe and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. In particular, there were government-mandated price reductions for certain biopharmaceutical products in certain European countries in 2010, and we anticipate continuing pricing pressures in Europe in 2011. This international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products between countries. As a result, it is expected that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. The adoption of restrictive price controls in new jurisdictions or more restrictive ones in existing jurisdictions could also adversely impact revenue.  Generic Competition  Competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for us around the world. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the “at-risk” launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our patented products, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period, which can adversely affect our business.  Also, the patents covering several of our most important medicines, including Lipitor, Caduet, Viagra, Detrol/Detrol LA, Lyrica, Sutent, Tygacil, Rapamune, Relpax, and Zyvox, are being challenged by generic manufacturers. In addition, our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of branded products of competitors that lose their market exclusivity.  Competitive Products  We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. Products that compete with ours, including some of our best-selling medicines, are launched from time to time. Competitive product launches have occurred in recent years and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the FDA and with regulatory authorities in other countries.  Dependence on Key In-Line Products  We recorded direct product revenues of more than $1 billion for each of 15 biopharmaceutical products in 2010: Lipitor, Enbrel, Lyrica, Prevnar/Prevenar 13, Celebrex, Viagra, Xalatan/Xalacom, Effexor/Effexor XR, Norvasc, Prevnar/Prevenar (7-valent), Zyvox, Sutent, Premarin family, Geodon/Zeldox and Detrol/Detrol LA. Those products accounted for 60% of our total Biopharmaceutical revenues in 2010. Lipitor sales in 2010 were approximately $10.7 billion, accounting for approximately 18% of our total 2010 Biopharmaceutical revenues. If the products referenced above or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection, changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected     21    Table of Contents   side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing competitive products, changes in labeling or, if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. As noted, patents covering several of our best-selling medicines have recently expired or will expire in the next few years, and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are the subject of pending legal challenges. We expect we will lose exclusivity for Lipitor in the U.S. in November 2011 and, as a result, will lose the substantial portion of our U.S. revenues from Lipitor shortly thereafter. In addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products.  Specialty Pharmaceuticals  Specialty pharmaceuticals are medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions that have smaller patient populations, such as certain types of cancer and multiple sclerosis. The growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, is beginning to generate significant payer interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. While the impact on Pfizer of payers’ efforts to control access and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals has been limited to date, our growing portfolio of specialty products, combined with the increasing use of health technology assessment in markets around the world and the deteriorating finances of governments, may lead to a more significant adverse business impact in the future.  Research and Development Investment  The discovery and development of new products as well as the development of additional uses for existing products are very important to the success of the Company. However, balancing current growth and investment for the future remains a major challenge. Our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in research and development for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. This could produce higher costs without a proportional increase in revenues.  Additionally, Pfizer’s research and development investment plans and resources may not be correctly matched between the science and the market. The Company may not be investing in the right technology platforms, leading therapeutic segments, product classes, geographic markets and/or in-licensing and out-licensing opportunities in order to deliver a robust pipeline. Additionally, even if the areas with the greatest market attractiveness are identified, the science may not work for any given program.  We recently announced a focus on fewer disease areas where we believe we can deliver the greatest medical and commercial success. There can be no assurance that this strategy will deliver the desired result which could affect profitability in the future.  Development, Regulatory Approval and Marketing of Products  Risks and uncertainties apply particularly with respect to product-related, forward-looking statements. The outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain. Drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. The process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take many years. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process. There can be no assurance as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approval for new products or for new indications or dosage forms for existing products. Decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. There is also a risk that we may not adequately address existing regulatory agency findings concerning the adequacy of our regulatory compliance processes or implement sustainable processes and procedures to maintain regulatory compliance and to address future regulatory agency findings should they occur. There also are many considerations that can affect marketing of our products around the world. Regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete clinical trials, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are a few of the factors that could adversely affect the realization of research and development and product-related, forward-looking statements.     22    Table of Contents  Post-Approval Data  As a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the FDA may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. The results generated in these Phase IV trials could result in loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about side effects or efficacy of a product. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 (the FDAAA) gives the FDA enhanced post-market authority, including the explicit authority to require post-market studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information and compliance with FDA-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. The FDA’s exercise of its authority under the FDAAA could result in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to comply with additional post-approval regulatory requirements and potential restrictions on sales of approved products. Foreign regulatory agencies often have similar authority and may impose comparable costs. Post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect sales of our products. Further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on sales of the affected products. Accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal. Furthermore, new data and information, including information about product misuse, may lead government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups or organizations involved with various diseases to publish guidelines or recommendations related to the use of our products or the use of related therapies or place restrictions on sales. Such guidelines or recommendations may lead to lower sales of our products.  Biotechnology Products  The ACA has created a framework for the approval of biosimilars in the U.S. following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator   biologic with a potential six month pediatric extension. Such biosimilars could reference biotechnology products already approved under the U.S. Public Health Service Act. Additionally, the FDA has approved a biosimilar recombinant human growth hormone, Genotropin, that referenced a biotechnology product approved under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. In Europe, the European Commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from biosimilars, with the attendant competitive pressure. Expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could generally trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. We expect that we could face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products with substantial revenue.  Research Studies  Decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy once the drug receives approval. More detailed studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing, but they consume time and resources and can delay submitting the drug candidate for initial approval. We try to plan clinical trials prudently, but there is no guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made in each case. The quality of our decisions in this area could affect our future results.  Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Risk  57% of our total 2010 revenues were derived from international operations, including 28% from the Europe region and 18% from the Japan/Asia region. These international-based revenues, as well as our substantial international net assets, expose our revenues and earnings to foreign currency exchange rate changes. In addition, our interest-bearing investments, loans and borrowings are subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. These risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the section entitled Financial Risk Management in our 2010 Financial     23    Table of Contents   Report. For additional details, see Note 9-E to our consolidated financial statements, Financial Instruments: Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities, in our 2010 Financial Report. Those sections of our 2010 Financial Report are incorporated by reference.  Notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses.  Risks Affecting International Operations  Our international operations also could be affected by capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of, reimbursement for and access to, our products, as well as by political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. Any of these changes could adversely affect our business.  Diversified Segment  Our Animal Health unit may be impacted by challenging global economic conditions resulting in high unemployment rates and tight credit conditions. A high unemployment rate typically results in reduced traffic in veterinary clinics, negatively impacting our companion animal business. Tight credit conditions limit the borrowing power of livestock producers, causing some to switch to lower-priced alternatives.  Pfizer Nutrition may be impacted by challenging global economic conditions and the resulting effect on consumer spending. Increased competition particularly in high growth emerging markets is also a risk for this business. The Nutrition business may also experience significant financial impact associated with changes in national, regional, and international laws, rules and guidelines and their enforcement. Our infant and young child nutrition products are subject to an array of rules and regulations enforced by government entities as well as treaties, conventions and guidelines from international authorities. Changes to these requirements can significantly impact costs relating to taxes, tariffs, trade, labeling, marketing, manufacturing, and the overall availability of our products.  The Consumer Healthcare unit may be impacted by economic volatility and generic competition affecting consumer spending patterns and market share gains of competitors’ branded products or generic store brands. In addition, regulatory and legislative outcomes regarding the safety, efficacy or unintended uses of specific ingredients in our Consumer Healthcare products may require withdrawal and/or reformulation of certain products (e.g. cough/cold products).  Global Economic Conditions  The global economic downturn and the challenging global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a material impact on our liquidity. Due to our significant operating cash flow, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. As market conditions change, we will continue to monitor our liquidity position. However, there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected by possible future changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions.  In addition to industry-specific factors, we, like other businesses, continue to face the effects of the challenging economic environment which have impacted our Biopharmaceutical operations in the U.S. and Europe, affecting the performance of products such as Lipitor, Celebrex and Lyrica. We believe that patients, experiencing the effects of the challenging economic environment, including high unemployment levels and increases in co-pays, sometimes switch to generic products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments to reduce their costs. Challenging economic conditions in the U.S. also have increased the number of patients in the Medicaid program, under which sales of pharmaceuticals are subject to substantial rebates and, in many states, to formulary restrictions limiting access to brand-name drugs, including ours. In addition, during 2010, we continued to experience pricing pressure as a result of the economic environment in Europe, with government-mandated reductions in prices for certain Biopharmaceutical products in certain European countries.  Outsourcing  Outsourcing to third parties in areas including transaction processing, accounting, information     24    Table of Contents   technology, manufacturing, clinical trials, non-clinical studies, research and development, safety and other areas could expose us to sub-optimal quality, missed deadlines or supply disruptions, all with potential negative implications for our results.  Interactions with Healthcare Professionals  Risks and uncertainties apply where the Company provides something of value to a healthcare professional and/or government official, which, if found to be improper, could potentially result in government enforcement actions and penalties. These risks may increase as non-U.S. jurisdictions adopt new anti-bribery laws and regulations.  Difficulties of Our Wholesale Distributors  In 2010, our largest wholesale distributor accounted for approximately 14% of our total revenue, and our top three wholesale distributors accounted for approximately 34% of our total revenue. If one of our significant wholesale distributors encounters financial or other difficulties, such distributor may decrease the amount of business that it does with us, and we may be unable to collect all the amounts that the distributor owes us on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact our results of operations.  Product Manufacturing and Marketing Risks  Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing, including, but not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand or the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products, or the possibility that the quality of incoming materials may be substandard and not detected or that we may fail to maintain appropriate quality standards throughout the internal and external supply network, could affect future results.  Cost and Expense Control/Unusual Events  Growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, product withdrawals and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. Such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to   successfully implement our announced plans regarding the Company’s research and development function including the planned exit from the Company’s Sandwich U.K. site, subject to works council and union consultations, as well as our ability to realize the projected benefits of our cost-reduction initiatives, including those related to the Wyeth integration and to our research and development function.  Changes in Laws and Accounting Standards  Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax-rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law and regulatory interpretations including changes affecting the taxation by the U.S. of income earned outside the U.S. that result from the enactment in August 2010 of the Education, Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act of 2010, and that may result from pending and possible future proposals), competition laws and environmental laws in the U.S. and other countries.  Terrorist Activity  Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas.  Legal Proceedings  We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, environmental and tax litigations and claims, government investigations, and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. Although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. We also may fail to identify or prevent non-compliance with the laws and regulations associated with the dissemination of product information (approved and unapproved), potentially resulting in government enforcement and damage to our reputation.     25    Table of Contents  Patent claims include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. Although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future results of operations.  Business Development Activities  We expect to continue to enhance our in-line products and product pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and alliances. See Our Business Development Initiatives—Strategy and Recent Transactions in our 2010 Financial Report, which is incorporated by reference. However, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities and competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities.  Information Technology  We rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure. The size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and random attack. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others with permitted access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. While we have invested heavily in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business.  Failure to Realize All of the Anticipated Benefits of the Acquisition of Wyeth  The success of our acquisition of Wyeth will depend, in large part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from integrating the operations of Pfizer and Wyeth. If we are not able to successfully integrate the operations of the two legacy companies, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected.    ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS