Item 1A. Risk Factors  Other than the following updates, there have been no material changes to the Risk Factors contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, filed with the SEC on February 28, 2008 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 9, 2008.  Regulatory developments with respect to the futures and over-the-counter markets, and in particular, with respect to speculative trading in commodity interests and derivative contracts, could have a negative impact on our businesses.  A number of bills have been introduced in Congress in response to high energy and commodity prices. These bills generally target perceived excessive speculation on regulated futures markets, unregulated futures markets and over-the-counter markets. These bills propose to control such perceived excessive speculation by a number of means, including: (1) increasing margins; (2) imposing federally mandated speculative limits; (3) eliminating certain exemptions from speculative limits; (4) imposing additional reporting requirements; and (5) otherwise restricting the access of certain classes of investors to futures markets. We cannot predict whether any of these regulatory changes will occur or how they will ultimately affect our businesses. The adoption of this proposed legislation could require us to change how we conduct our businesses and limit our growth opportunities. We generate revenues primarily from our clearing and transaction fees. Each of these revenue sources is substantially dependent on the trading volume in our markets and in the markets to which we provide processing services. If the amount of trading volume decreases as result of this pending legislation, our revenues from these sources will decrease. A reduction in our total trading volume could also render us less attractive to market participants as a source of liquidity relative to our competitors and could result in further losses of trading volume and the associated clearing and transaction fees and processing services revenue. Accordingly, to the extent that a bill attempting to control speculative trading in commodity interests and derivative contracts is enacted and applies to all markets, our trading volume, open interest and financial results could be negatively affected.    30    Table of Contents   Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds