Item 1A. Risk Factors  The following is an update to the Risk Factors disclosure included in the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 26, 2010.  Our business may be impacted by the adoption and implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act.  On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act also known as the Restoring American Financial Stability Act of 2010. This new legislation is a comprehensive banking and financial services reform package that includes significant changes to the oversight of the derivatives markets, both over-the-counter and exchange traded. While we believe that the new regulations provide opportunities for our business which we intend to explore, the Act is subject to extensive rulemaking by the CFTC, the SEC, the Department of Treasury and other regulators. In light of the uncertainty of the final implementation of the Act, there is a risk that the final regulations could include provisions that could negatively impact our business. For example, the Act provides for certain restrictions on swap dealing and proprietary trading, enhancements to the margin requirements and guaranty fund contributions and for position limits. To the extent these provisions negatively impact the trading activity of our customers, our trading volumes and related revenues may be impacted.  In accordance with the Act, the CFTC’s authority will be significantly expanded to include over-the-counter derivatives. To the extent rulemaking stemming from the Act includes a more rules-based approach versus the CFTC’s existing principles-based approach, our ability to efficiently operate our business could be impaired.  The Act also provides for central clearing of “clearable” over-the-counter swaps and requires that swaps that are cleared to be traded on exchanges or swap execution facilities. While these new requirements create new opportunities for us to expand our over-the-counter business, a number of market participants and exchanges have developed, and likely will develop in the future, competing platforms and products. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively or that our initiatives will be successful.  To the extent the regulatory environment following the implementation of the Act is less beneficial for us or our customers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively affected.      Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds