Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  The following is an update to the Risk Factors disclosure included in the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 28, 2011. In addition to the other information contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, which are the risks that we believe are material at this time. These risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business in the future.  Our role in the global marketplace may place us at greater risk for a cyber attack and other cyber security risks.  In connection with the continued economic uncertainty, groups such as Occupy Wall Street and Anonymous, have targeted the financial services industry as part of their protest against the perceived lax regulation of the financial sector and economic inequality. For example, the Anonymous group called on its supporters to launch a “distributed denial of service” attack to overwhelm website traffic on NYSE Euronext’s external Web site which resulted in a brief outage. While we have no evidence at this time that we are a specific target of a cyber attack, our role in the global marketplace places us at greater risk. Additionally, our role as a leading derivatives marketplace and the operation of our CME Globex electronic trading platform may place us at greater risk for misappropriation of our intellectual property. In September 2011, a former employee of CME Group was charged with two counts of theft of trade secrets in an indictment returned by a federal grand jury. We do not believe that any customer information, trade data or required regulatory information was compromised in this incident and we have no evidence that the trade secrets were distributed in connection with this matter. While we continue to employ resources to monitor the environment and protect our infrastructure against security breaches and misappropriation of our intellectual property assets, these measures may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed, which could result in system failures and delays that could cause us to lose customers, experience lower trading volume, incur significant liabilities or have a negative impact on our competitive advantage.    28    Table of Contents   Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS