Item 1A: Risk Factors” and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements in this document speak only as of the date of this document. Except to the extent required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.1Table of Contents Cardinal Health, Inc. and SubsidiariesPart IItem 1: BusinessGeneralCardinal Health, Inc. is an Ohio corporation formed in 1979. As used in this report, “we,” “our,” “us” and similar pronouns refer to Cardinal Health, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. We are a healthcare services company providing pharmaceutical and medical products and services that help pharmacies, hospitals and other healthcare providers focus on patient care while reducing costs, enhancing efficiency and improving quality. We also provide medical products to patients in the home.Our fiscal year ends on June 30. References to fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012 are to the fiscal years ended June 30, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Except as otherwise specified, information in this Form 10-K is provided as of June 30, 2014.We report our financial results in two segments: Pharmaceutical and Medical.Pharmaceutical SegmentIn the United States, the Pharmaceutical segment:•distributes branded and generic pharmaceutical, over-the-counter healthcare and consumer products through its Pharmaceutical Distribution division to retailers (including chain and independent drug stores and pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers), hospitals and other healthcare providers. This division:•maintains prime vendor relationships that streamline the purchasing process resulting in greater efficiency and lower costs for our customers;•renders services to pharmaceutical manufacturers including distribution, inventory management, data reporting, new product launch support, and contract pricing and chargeback administration;•provides pharmacy services to hospitals and other healthcare facilities; and•franchises retail pharmacies under the Medicine Shoppe® and Medicap® brands;•operates nuclear pharmacies and cyclotron facilities through its Nuclear Pharmacy Services division that manufacture, prepare and deliver radiopharmaceuticals for use in nuclear imaging and other procedures in hospitals and physician offices; and•distributes specialty pharmaceutical products, provides services to pharmaceutical manufacturers, third-party payors and healthcare providers supporting the development, marketing, distribution and payment for specialty pharmaceutical products, and operates specialty pharmacies through its Specialty Solutions division.In China, the Pharmaceutical segment distributes branded, generic and specialty pharmaceutical, over-the-counter  healthcare and consumer products as well as provides logistics, marketing and other services and operates direct-to-patient specialty pharmacies through Cardinal Health China.Pharmaceutical DistributionOur Pharmaceutical Distribution division generates gross margin when the aggregate selling price to our customers exceeds the aggregate cost of products sold. Gross margin includes margin from our generic pharmaceutical programs, margin from branded pharmaceutical distribution agreements and cash discounts. Margin from our generic pharmaceutical programs includes price discounts and rebates and may include price appreciation on some products. Our earnings on generic pharmaceuticals are generally highest during the period immediately following the initial launch of a generic product because generic pharmaceutical selling prices are generally highest during that period and tend to decline over time. Margin from branded pharmaceutical distribution agreements refers primarily to fees we receive for rendering a range of distribution and related services to manufacturers and also includes benefits from pharmaceutical price appreciation.Joint Venture With CVS CaremarkIn July 2014, we established Red Oak Sourcing, LLC (“Red Oak Sourcing”), a U.S.-based generic pharmaceutical sourcing entity with CVS Caremark Corporation (“CVS”) with an initial term of 10 years. Both companies have contributed sourcing and supply chain expertise to the 50/50 joint venture and have committed to source generic pharmaceuticals through arrangements negotiated by it. Red Oak Sourcing will negotiate generic pharmaceutical supply contracts on behalf of both companies, but will not own products or hold inventory on behalf of either company. We are required to pay 39 quarterly payments of $25.6 million to CVS commencing in October 2014 and, only if certain milestones are achieved, to pay additional predetermined amounts to CVS beginning in fiscal 2016. The fixed payments of $25.6 million will be expensed evenly commencing with the ramp-up of the venture, which we expect to begin by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2015. No physical assets were contributed by either company to Red Oak Sourcing, and minimal funding has been provided to capitalize the entity.Specialty Pharmaceutical Products and ServicesWe refer to products and services offered by our Specialty Solutions division as “specialty pharmaceutical products and services.” The Specialty Solutions division distributes oncology, rheumatology, urology and other pharmaceutical products ("specialty pharmaceutical products") and human-derived plasma products to hospitals, physician offices and other healthcare providers; provides consulting, patient support, logistics and other services to pharmaceutical manufacturers, third-party payors and healthcare providers primarily supporting the development, marketing, distribution and payment for specialty pharmaceutical products; and operates specialty 2Table of Contents Cardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries   pharmacies. Our use of the terminology "specialty pharmaceutical products and services" may not be comparable to the use of that terminology by other industry participants.Pharmaceutical Segment Financial StatementsSee Note 15 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for Pharmaceutical segment revenue, profit and assets for fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012.Medical SegmentThe Medical segment distributes a broad range of medical, surgical and laboratory products to hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories, physician offices and other healthcare providers in the United States, Canada and China and to patients in the home in the United States through our Cardinal Health at Home division ("Home division"), which was formerly known as our AssuraMed division. This segment also manufactures, sources and develops its own line of private brand medical and surgical products. Manufactured products include: single-use surgical drapes, gowns and apparel; exam and surgical gloves; and fluid suction and collection systems. The segment began to manufacture extravascular closure devices after the acquisition of Access Closure, Inc. ("AccessClosure") in May 2014. We expect to expand the segment's product offering for orthopedic, cardiovascular and other procedures. This segment also assembles and offers sterile and non-sterile procedure kits. Our manufactured products are sold directly or through third-party distributors in the United States, Canada, Europe and other regions internationally. In addition, the segment provides supply chain services, including spend management, distribution management and inventory management services, to healthcare providers.Medical Segment Financial StatementsSee Note 15 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for Medical segment revenue, profit and assets for fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012. Acquisitions and DivestituresIn the past five fiscal years, we completed the following four larger acquisitions:DateCompanyLocationLineof BusinessAcquisitionPrice(in millions)03/13AssuraMed, Inc.Twinsburg, OHMedical product distribution$2,070 12/10Kinray, Inc.Whitestone, NYPharmaceutical product distribution$1,336 11/10Cardinal Health ChinaShanghai, ChinaPharmaceutical and medical product distribution$458(1)07/10Healthcare SolutionsHolding, LLCEllicott City, MDSpecialty pharmaceutical services$520(2)(1)Includes the assumption of approximately $57 million in debt.(2)Includes $506 million in cash paid on the acquisition date and $14 million paid in fiscal 2012 and 2013 in connection with a contingent consideration obligation. The contingent consideration obligation had an acquisition date fair value of $92 million.In addition, we completed several smaller acquisitions during the last five fiscal years, including AccessClosure, a manufacturer and distributor of extravascular closure devices in the United States, in fiscal 2014 and Futuremed Healthcare Products Corporation, a Canadian medical product distributor, in fiscal 2012.During the past five fiscal years, we also completed several divestitures, including selling our United Kingdom-based Martindale injectable manufacturing business in fiscal 2010. In addition, effective August 31, 2009, we separated our clinical and medical products businesses (the "CareFusion Spin-Off") through a distribution to our shareholders of 81 percent of the then outstanding common stock of CareFusion Corporation ("CareFusion"). During fiscal 2010 and 2011, we disposed of the remaining shares of CareFusion common stock.CustomersOur largest customer, CVS, accounted for 28 percent of our fiscal 2014 revenue. In the aggregate, our five largest customers, including CVS, accounted for 42 percent of our fiscal 2014 revenue. Our pharmaceutical distribution contract with Walgreen Co. ("Walgreens"), which was our second largest customer in fiscal 2013 and our third largest in fiscal 2014, expired in August 2013. Walgreens accounted for 4 percent of our fiscal 2014 revenue.In addition, we have agreements with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”) that act as agents to negotiate vendor contracts on behalf of their members. Our two largest GPO relationships in terms of member revenue are with Novation, LLC and Premier Purchasing Partners, L.P. Sales to members of these two GPOs, under numerous contracts across all of our 3Table of Contents Cardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries   businesses, collectively accounted for 17 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2014.SuppliersWe rely on many different suppliers. Products obtained from our five largest suppliers accounted for an aggregate of 24 percent of our revenue during fiscal 2014, but no single supplier’s products accounted for more than 6 percent of revenue. Overall, we believe our relationships with our suppliers are good.The Pharmaceutical Distribution division is a party to distribution service agreements with pharmaceutical manufacturers. These agreements have terms ranging from one year to five years. Most provide for an automatic renewal feature of one year. Some agreements allow either party and in some instances only the manufacturer to terminate the agreement without cause subject to a defined notice period.CompetitionWe operate in a highly competitive environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare services. We also operate in a highly competitive environment in the development, manufacturing and distribution of medical and surgical products. We compete on many levels, including service offerings, support services, breadth of product lines and price.In the Pharmaceutical segment, we compete with wholesale distributors with national reach (including McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation), regional wholesale distributors, self-warehousing chains, specialty distributors, third-party logistics companies, companies that provide services supporting the development, marketing, distribution and payment for specialty pharmaceutical products and nuclear pharmacies, among others. In addition, the Pharmaceutical segment has experienced competition from a number of organizations offering generic pharmaceuticals, including telemarketers. We also compete with manufacturers that sell all or part of their product offerings directly.In the Medical segment, we compete with many different national medical product distributors, including Owens & Minor, Inc., McKesson Corporation and Medline Industries, Inc. We also compete with regional medical product distributors and companies that distribute medical products to patients in the home as well as third-party logistics companies. In addition, we compete with manufacturers that sell all or part of their product offerings directly. Competitors of the Medical segment’s manufacturing and procedural kit businesses include diversified healthcare companies as well as companies that are more focused on specific product categories.EmployeesAt June 30, 2014, we had approximately 23,900 employees in the United States and approximately 10,100 employees outside of the United States. Overall, we consider our employee relations to be good. Intellectual PropertyWe rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect our products, services and intangible assets. We hold patents relating to some medical and surgical products and to distribution of our nuclear pharmacy products and service offerings. We also operate under licenses for certain proprietary technologies, and in certain instances we license our technologies to third parties. We believe that we have taken all necessary steps to protect our proprietary rights, but no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully enforce or protect our rights in the event that they are infringed upon by a third party. While all of these proprietary rights are important to our operations, we do not consider any particular patent, trademark, license, franchise or concession to be material to our overall business.Regulatory MattersOur business is highly regulated in the United States at both the federal and state level and in foreign countries. Depending upon their specific business, our subsidiaries may be subject to regulation by government entities including:•the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”);•the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (the “DEA”);•the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the “NRC”);•the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services;•the U.S. Federal Trade Commission;•U.S. Customs and Border Protection;•state boards of pharmacy;•state controlled substance agencies;•state health departments, insurance departments or other comparable state agencies; and•foreign agencies that are comparable to those listed above.These regulatory agencies have a variety of civil, administrative and criminal sanctions at their disposal for failure to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements. They can suspend our ability to distribute products or can initiate product recalls; they can seize products or impose criminal, civil and administrative sanctions; and they can seek injunctions to halt the manufacture and distribution of products.DistributionThe FDA, DEA and various state authorities regulate the marketing, purchase, storage and distribution of pharmaceutical and medical products under various state and federal statutes including the Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987 and the Federal Controlled Substances Act (the "CSA"), which governs the sale, packaging, storage and distribution of controlled substances. Wholesale distributors of controlled substances must hold valid DEA registrations and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards, and comply with the 4Table of Contents Cardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries   CSA. In May 2014, our Lakeland, Florida pharmaceutical distribution center's DEA registration to distribute controlled substances was reinstated in accordance with a settlement agreement that we had entered into with the DEA in May 2012, as further discussed in Note 9 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."Manufacturing and MarketingOur subsidiaries that manufacture and source medical devices or pharmaceuticals are subject to regulation by the FDA or comparable foreign agencies that administer regulations such as compliance with good manufacturing practices and quality systems.The FDA and other domestic and foreign governmental agencies administer requirements that cover the design, testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, promotion and advertising, distribution, importation and post-market surveillance of some of our manufactured products. We need specific approval or clearance from regulatory authorities before we can market and sell many of our products in particular countries. Even after we obtain approval or clearance to market a product, the product and our manufacturing processes are subject to continued regulatory oversight. It can be costly and time-consuming to obtain regulatory approvals or clearances to market a medical device, and such approvals or clearances might not be granted on a timely basis, if at all.From time to time, we may determine that products we manufacture or market do not meet our specifications, regulatory requirements, or published standards. When we or a regulatory agency identify a quality or regulatory issue, we investigate and take appropriate corrective action, which may include withdrawing the product from the market, correcting the product at the customer location, revising product labeling, and notifying customers.Nuclear Pharmacies and Related BusinessesOur nuclear pharmacies and cyclotron facilities require licenses or permits and must abide by regulations issued by the NRC, applicable state boards of pharmacy and the radiologic health agency or department of health of each state in which we operate. In addition, our cyclotron facilities must comply with the FDA's good manufacturing practices regulations for positron emission tomography, or PET, drugs.Prescription Drug Tracing and Supply Chain IntegrityIn November 2013, the U.S. Congress enacted the Drug Supply Chain Security Act. This law establishes a phased-in national system for tracing pharmaceutical products through the pharmaceutical distribution supply chain to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated or mislabeled drugs. The first phase of implementation will begin January 1, 2015, and upon full implementation in 2023, supply chain stakeholders will participate in an electronic, interoperable, prescription drug tracing system.  Government Healthcare ProgramsWe are subject to U.S. federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws. These laws generally prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any compensation in order to induce someone to order or purchase items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other federally-funded healthcare programs. They also prohibit submitting or causing to be submitted any fraudulent claim for payment by the federal government. There are often similar state healthcare fraud and abuse laws that apply to Medicaid and other state-funded healthcare programs. Violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil penalties, as well as breach of contract claims and qui tam actions (false claims cases initiated by private parties purporting to act on behalf of federal or state governments).Our Home division is a Medicare-certified supplier and participates in state Medicaid programs with respect to a small portion of its business. It must meet quality standards and maintain accreditation to receive government reimbursement, and must comply with applicable billing, payment and record-keeping requirements. Failure to comply with quality standards and billing requirements could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.In addition, our U.S. federal and state government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations. Failure to comply with applicable rules or regulations or with contractual or other requirements may result in monetary damages and criminal or civil penalties as well as termination of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from government contract work.Health and Personal Information PracticesSome of our businesses collect, handle and maintain patient-identifiable healthcare information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as augmented by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, as well as some state laws, regulate the use and disclosure of patient-identifiable health information, including requiring specified privacy and security measures. Federal and state officials have increasingly focused on how patient-identifiable healthcare information should be handled, secured and disclosed.Some of our businesses collect, handle and maintain other sensitive personal information that is subject to federal and state laws protecting such information. Security and disclosure of personal information is also highly regulated in many other countries in which we operate.Environmental, Health and Safety LawsIn the United States and other countries, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, as well as laws relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices.5Table of Contents Cardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries   Laws Relating to Foreign Trade and OperationsU.S. and foreign laws require us to abide by standards relating to the import and export of finished goods, raw materials and supplies and the handling of information. We also must comply with various export control and trade embargo laws, which may require licenses or other authorizations for transactions within some countries or with some counterparties.Similarly, we are subject to U.S. and foreign laws concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Chinese anti-corruption laws and other foreign anti-bribery laws. Among other things, these laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising or making payments to officials of foreign governments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.Regulation in ChinaOur China operations are subject to national, regional and local regulations, including licensing and regulatory requirements of the China National Health and Family Planning Commission, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the China Food and Drug Administration, the National Development and Reform Commission and the General Administration of Customs.Other InformationAlthough our agreements with manufacturers sometimes require us to maintain inventory levels within specified ranges, our distribution businesses are generally not required by our customers to maintain particular inventory levels other than as needed to meet service level requirements. Certain supply contracts with U.S. government entities require us to maintain sufficient inventory to meet emergency demands, but we do not believe those requirements materially affect inventory levels.Our customer return policies generally require that the product be physically returned, subject to restocking fees. We only allow customers to return products that can be added back to inventory and resold at full value, or that can be returned to vendors for credit.We offer market payment terms to our customers.Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic AreaSee Note 15 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area.Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website (www.cardinalhealth.com), under the “Investors—Financial Reporting—SEC Filings” caption, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) where you can search for annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding us and other public companies.Item 1A: Risk FactorsThe risks described below could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. These are not the only risks we face. Our businesses also could be affected by risks that we are not presently aware of or that we currently consider immaterial to our operations.The U.S. healthcare environment is changing in many ways, some of which may not be favorable to us.The healthcare industry continues to undergo significant changes designed to increase access to medical care, improve safety, contain costs and increase efficiencies. Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels have declined; the use of managed care has increased; distributors, manufacturers, healthcare providers and pharmacy chains have consolidated and have formed strategic alliances; and large purchasing groups are prevalent. The industry also has experienced a shift away from traditional healthcare venues like hospitals and into clinics and physician offices, and, in some cases, patients’ homes. We could be adversely affected directly or indirectly (if our customers are adversely affected) by these and other changes in the delivery or pricing of, or reimbursement for, pharmaceuticals, medical devices or healthcare services.We could suffer the adverse effects of competitive pressures.As described in greater detail in "Item 1: Business" above, we operate in markets that are highly competitive. Because of competition, our businesses face continued pricing pressure from our customers and suppliers. If we are unable to offset margin reductions caused by these pricing pressures through steps such as sourcing or cost control measures or additional service offerings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.In addition, in recent years, the healthcare industry has continued to consolidate. Further consolidation among our customers and suppliers could give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which may adversely impact our results of operations.Our Pharmaceutical segment's margin may be affected by prices established by manufacturers, fewer or less profitable generic pharmaceutical launches and other factors that are beyond our control.As described in greater detail in "Item 1: Business" above, gross margin in our Pharmaceutical segment is impacted by generic and branded pharmaceutical price appreciation and the number 6Table of Contents Cardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries   and value of generic pharmaceutical launches. In past years, these items have been substantial drivers of Pharmaceutical segment profit.Prices for generic pharmaceuticals generally decline over time. But at times, some generic products experience price appreciation, which positively impacts our margins. The frequency and magnitude of future generic product price appreciation is uncertain. Prices for branded pharmaceuticals, on the other hand, generally increase over time. The frequency and magnitude of branded product price appreciation also is uncertain, and branded manufacturers may determine not to increase prices or to implement only modest increases, which can limit our margin.The number of new generic pharmaceutical launches varies from year to year, and the margin impact of new launches varies from product to product. Fewer generic pharmaceutical launches or launches that are less profitable than those previously experienced will have an adverse effect on our year-over-year margins. Our business is subject to rigorous regulatory and licensing requirements.The healthcare industry is highly regulated. As described in greater detail in "Item 1: Business" above, we are subject to regulation in the United States at both the federal and state level and in China and other foreign countries. If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, or if allegations are made that we fail to comply, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.To lawfully operate our businesses, we are required to obtain and hold permits, licenses and other regulatory approvals from, and to comply with operating and security standards of, numerous governmental bodies. Failure to maintain or renew necessary permits, licenses or approvals, or to comply with required standards, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Products that we manufacture, source, distribute or market are required to comply with regulatory requirements. Noncompliance or concerns over noncompliance may result in suspension of our ability to distribute, import or manufacture products, product recalls or seizures, or criminal or civil sanctions. In addition, it can be costly and time-consuming to obtain regulatory approvals to market a medical device, and such approvals might not be granted on a timely basis, if at all.We are required to comply with laws relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The requirements of these laws are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. It is possible that regulatory authorities could challenge our policies and practices, which may adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be subject to federal or state government investigations  or qui tam actions (false claims cases initiated by private parties purporting to act on behalf of federal or state governments), which could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of licenses or the ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Our Home division is a Medicare-certified supplier and participates in state Medicaid programs with respect to a small portion of its business. Its failure to comply with quality standards and billing requirements could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of our ability to participate in Medicare and other federal and state healthcare programs.Our government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations. Failure to comply with applicable rules or regulations or with contractual or other requirements may result in monetary damages and criminal or civil penalties as well as termination of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from government contract work.Our global operations are required to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Chinese anti-corruption laws and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions and U.S. and foreign export control, trade embargo and customs laws. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, we could suffer civil or criminal sanctions.Our China operations are subject to national, regional and local regulations. The regulatory environment in China is evolving, and officials in the Chinese government exercise broad discretion in deciding how to interpret and apply regulations. It is possible that the Chinese government's current or future interpretation and application of existing or new regulations will negatively impact our China operations, result in regulatory investigations or lead to fines or penalties.CVS Caremark is a large customer that generates a significant amount of our revenue.Our sales and credit concentration is significant. CVS accounted for 28 percent of our fiscal 2014 revenue and 22 percent of our gross trade receivable balance at June 30, 2014. If CVS were to terminate the agreement due to an alleged default by us, default in payment or significantly reduce its purchases of our products and services, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The anticipated benefits of our generic pharmaceutical sourcing joint venture with CVS Caremark may not be realized. In July 2014, we established the Red Oak Sourcing joint venture with CVS with an initial term of 10 years. Red Oak Sourcing will negotiate generic pharmaceutical supply contracts on behalf of both companies. We are required to pay 39 quarterly payments of $25.6 million to CVS commencing in October 2014 without regard to the level of benefits we receive. If the benefits of the joint venture do not exceed our required payments to CVS, our 7Table of Contents Cardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries   results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.We could be subject to adverse changes in the tax laws or challenges to our tax positions.We are a large multinational corporation with operations in the United States and many foreign countries. As a result, we are subject to the tax laws of many jurisdictions. From time to time, legislative initiatives are proposed in the United States, such as the repeal of last-in, first-out, or LIFO, treatment of inventory or a change in the current U.S. taxation of income earned by foreign subsidiaries, that could adversely affect our tax positions, effective tax rate, tax payments or financial condition. Tax laws are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Tax authorities have challenged some of our tax positions and it is possible that they will challenge others. These challenges may adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments or financial condition.Our business and operations depend on the proper functioning of information systems and critical facilities.We rely on our information systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to:•facilitate the purchase and distribution of inventory items from numerous distribution centers;•receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis;•manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers;•process payments to suppliers;•facilitate the manufacturing and assembly of medical products; and•generate financial information.Our business also depends on the proper functioning of our critical facilities, including our national logistics center. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if our information systems or critical facilities, or our customers' access to them, are interrupted; these systems or facilities are damaged; or these systems or facilities fail, whether due to physical disruptions, such as fire, natural disaster, pandemic or power outage, or due to cyber security incidents or other actions of third parties. Our business relies on the secure transmission, storage and hosting of sensitive information, including patient-identifiable health information, financial information and other sensitive information relating to our customers, company and workforce. The techniques used by those seeking to obtain unauthorized access to our information systems, or disable them, degrade their service or sabotage them, change frequently. In addition, these techniques may be difficult to detect for a long time and often are not recognized until launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any compromise of our information systems or those of a third-party service  provider, including the unauthorized access, use or disclosure of sensitive information, could adversely impact our operations, results of operations or our ability to satisfy legal requirements, including those related to patient-identifiable health information. Because of the nature of our business, we may become involved in legal proceedings that could adversely impact our cash flows or results of operations.Due to the nature of our businesses, which includes the manufacture and distribution of healthcare products, we may from time to time become involved in disputes or legal proceedings. For instance, some of the products that we manufacture or distribute may be alleged to cause personal injury or violate the intellectual property rights of another party, subjecting us to product liability or infringement claims. Our Medical segment's manufacturing businesses operate in an industry characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation. Patent litigation is costly to defend and can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or force us to make royalty payments in order to continue selling the affected products. We also may be named in breach of contract claims or qui tam actions (false claims cases initiated by private parties purporting to act on behalf of federal or state governments). Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these legal proceedings could adversely affect our cash flows or results of operations. Acquisitions can have unanticipated results.An important element of our growth strategy has been to acquire other businesses that expand or complement our existing businesses. In fiscal 2014, we spent $519 million to acquire other businesses. Acquisitions involve risks: we may overpay for a business or fail to realize the synergies and other benefits we expect from the acquisition; future developments may impair the value of our purchased goodwill or intangible assets; or we may encounter unforeseen accounting, internal control, regulatory or compliance issues.We depend on certain suppliers to make their raw materials and products available to us and are subject to fluctuations in costs of raw materials and products.We depend on the availability of various components, compounds, raw materials (including radioisotopes) and energy supplied by others for our operations. Any of our supplier relationships could be interrupted due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, or could be terminated. A sustained supply interruption could have an adverse effect on our business. Our manufacturing businesses use oil-based resins, cotton, latex and other commodities as raw materials in many products. Prices of oil and gas also affect our distribution and transportation costs. Prices of these commodities are volatile 8Table of Contents Cardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries   and can fluctuate significantly, causing our costs to produce and distribute our products to fluctuate. Due to competitive dynamics and contractual limitations, we may be unable to pass along cost increases through higher prices. If we cannot fully offset cost increases through other cost reductions, or recover these costs through price increases or surcharges, our results of operations could be adversely affected.Our global operations are subject to economic, political and currency risks.Our global operations are affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, currency volatility and competition. Political changes also can disrupt our global operations, as well as our customers and suppliers, in a particular location. We may not be able to hedge or obtain insurance to protect us against these risks, and any hedges or insurance may be expensive and may not successfully mitigate these risks.Economic conditions may adversely affect demand for our products and services.Deterioration in general economic conditions in the United States and other countries in which we do business could adversely affect the amount of prescriptions filled and the number of medical procedures undertaken and, therefore, reduce purchases of our products and services by our customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations.Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments