Risk Factors  Risk Factors The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. These are not the only risks we face. Our businesses also could be affected by risks that we are not presently aware of or that we currently consider immaterial to our operations.We could suffer the adverse effects of competitive pressures.As described in greater detail in the "Business" section, we operate in markets that are highly competitive. Because of competition, our businesses face continued pricing pressure from our customers and suppliers. If we are unable to offset margin reductions caused by these pricing pressures through steps such as sourcing or cost control measures, additional service offerings and sales of higher margin products, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.In addition, in recent years, the healthcare industry has continued to consolidate. Further consolidation among our customers and suppliers could give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which may adversely impact our results of operations.Our Pharmaceutical segment's margins are affected by prices established by manufacturers, the frequency and magnitude of generic pharmaceutical launches, and other factors that are beyond our control.Gross margin in our Pharmaceutical segment is impacted by pharmaceutical price appreciation and the number and value of pharmaceutical launches. In past years, these items have impacted year-over-year margins.Prices for generic pharmaceuticals generally decline over time. But at times, some generic products experience price appreciation, which may positively impact our margins. The frequency and magnitude of future generic product price appreciation is uncertain.Prices for branded pharmaceuticals, on the other hand, generally increase over time. The frequency and magnitude of branded product price appreciation also is uncertain, and branded manufacturers may determine not to increase prices or to implement only modest increases, which can limit our margins.The number of new generic pharmaceutical launches varies from year to year, and the margin impact of new launches varies from product to product. Fewer generic pharmaceutical launches or launches that are less profitable than those previously experienced will have an adverse effect on our year-over-year margins.Our business is subject to rigorous regulatory and licensing requirements.The healthcare industry is highly regulated. As described in greater detail in the "Business" section, we are subject to regulation in the United States at both the federal and state level and in China and other foreign countries. If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, or if allegations are made that we fail to comply, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. To lawfully operate our businesses, we are required to obtain and hold permits, licenses and other regulatory approvals from, and to comply with operating and security standards of, numerous governmental bodies. Failure to maintain or renew necessary permits, licenses or approvals, or to comply with required standards, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Products that we manufacture, source, distribute or market must comply with regulatory requirements. Noncompliance or concerns over noncompliance may result in suspension of our ability to distribute, import or manufacture products, product recalls or seizures, or criminal or civil sanctions. In addition, it can be costly and time-consuming to obtain regulatory approvals to market a medical device, and such approvals might not be granted on a timely basis, if at all.We are required to comply with laws relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The requirements of these laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and it is possible that regulatory authorities could challenge our policies and practices. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be subject to federal or state government investigations or qui tam actions (false claims cases initiated by private parties purporting to act on behalf of federal or state governments), which could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of licenses or the ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Such sanctions and damages could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our Cardinal Health at Home business and a few of our other businesses are Medicare-certified suppliers, participate in state Medicaid programs or manufacture or repackage pharmaceuticals that are purchased through federal or state healthcare program. Their failure to comply with applicable standards and regulations could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.Our government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations. Failure to comply with applicable rules or regulations or with contractual or other requirements may result in monetary damages and criminal or civil penalties as well as termination of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from government contract work.We collect, handle and maintain patient-identifiable healthcare information and other sensitive personal information, which are subject to federal, state and foreign laws that regulate the use and disclosure of such information. Regulations currently in place continue to evolve, and new laws in this area could further restrict our ability to collect, handle and maintain personal or patient information, or could require us to incur additional compliance costs, either of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Violations of federal, state or foreign laws concerning  Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2015 Form 10-K 34Risk Factors  privacy and data protection could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, breach of contract claims, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation.The U.S. federal government and most states have enacted antitrust laws that prohibit certain types of conduct deemed to be anti-competitive. Violations of federal or state antitrust laws can result in various sanctions, including criminal and civil penalties. Private plaintiffs also could bring civil lawsuits against us for alleged antitrust law violations, including claims for treble damages.Our global operations are required to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Chinese anti-corruption laws, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions and U.S. and foreign export control, trade embargo and customs laws. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, we could suffer civil or criminal sanctions.Our China operations are subject to national, regional and local regulations. The regulatory environment in China is evolving, and officials in the Chinese government exercise broad discretion in deciding how to interpret and apply regulations. It is possible that the Chinese government's current or future interpretation and application of existing or new regulations will negatively impact our China operations, result in regulatory investigations or lead to fines or penalties.CVS Health is a large customer that generates a significant amount of our revenue.Our sales and credit concentration is significant. CVS Health accounted for 27 percent of our fiscal 2015 revenue and 20 percent of our gross trade receivable balance at June 30, 2015. If CVS Health were to terminate the agreement due to an alleged default by us, default in payment or significantly reduce its purchases of our products and services, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The anticipated benefits of our generic pharmaceutical sourcing venture with CVS Health may not be realized.In July 2014, we established the Red Oak Sourcing venture with CVS Health with an initial term of 10 years. Red Oak Sourcing negotiates generic pharmaceutical supply contracts on behalf of both companies. We are required to pay quarterly payments to CVS Health. If the venture does not continue to be successful, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.We could be subject to adverse changes in the tax laws or challenges to our tax positions.We are a large multinational corporation with operations in the United States and many foreign countries. As a result, we are subject to the tax laws of many jurisdictions. From time to time, legislative initiatives are proposed in the United States, such as the repeal of last-in, first-out, or LIFO, treatment of inventory or a change in the current U.S. taxation of income earned by foreign subsidiaries, that could adversely affect our tax positions, effective tax rate, tax payments or financial condition. Tax laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations. Tax authorities have challenged some of our tax positions and it is possible that they will challenge others. These  challenges may adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments or financial condition.The U.S. healthcare environment is changing in many ways, some of which may not be favorable to us.The healthcare industry continues to undergo significant changes designed to increase access to medical care, improve safety, contain costs and increase efficiencies. Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels have generally declined and the basis for payments is changing, shifting away from fee-for-service and towards value-based payments and risk-sharing models. The use of managed care has increased. Distributors, manufacturers, healthcare providers and pharmacy chains have consolidated and have formed strategic alliances. And large purchasing groups are prevalent. The industry also is experiencing a shift away from traditional healthcare venues like hospitals and into clinics and physician offices, and, in some cases, patients’ homes. We could be adversely affected directly or indirectly (if our customers are adversely affected) by these and other changes in the delivery, pricing or utilization of, or reimbursement for, pharmaceuticals, medical products or healthcare services.Our business and operations depend on the proper functioning of information systems and critical facilities.We rely on our information systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to:•facilitate the purchase and distribution of inventory items from numerous distribution centers;•receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis;•manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers;•process payments to suppliers;•facilitate the manufacturing and assembly of medical products; and•generate financial information.Our business also depends on the proper functioning of our critical facilities, including our national logistics center. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if our information systems or critical facilities, or our customers' access to them, are interrupted; these systems or facilities are damaged; or these systems or facilities fail, whether due to physical disruptions, such as fire, natural disaster, pandemic or power outage, or due to cyber security incidents or other actions of third parties. Our business relies on the secure transmission, storage and hosting of patient-identifiable health information, financial information and other sensitive information relating to our customers, company and workforce. The techniques used by those seeking to obtain unauthorized access to our information systems or to those of a third-party service provider, or to disable them, degrade their service or sabotage them, change frequently. In addition, these techniques may be difficult to detect for a long time and often are not recognized until launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any compromise of our information systems or those of a third-party 35Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2015 Form 10-K Risk Factors  service provider, including the unauthorized access, use or disclosure of sensitive information, could adversely impact our operations, results of operations or our ability to satisfy legal requirements, including those related to patient-identifiable health information. The Pharmaceutical segment is in the initial phases of a multi-year upgrade of certain finance and operating systems. If these system upgrades are not effectively implemented or they fail to operate as intended, it could adversely affect the Pharmaceutical segment’s supply chain operations and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.Because of the nature of our business, we may become involved in legal proceedings that could adversely impact our cash flows or results of operations.Due to the nature of our businesses, which includes the manufacture and distribution of healthcare products, we may from time to time become involved in disputes or legal proceedings. For instance, some of the products that we manufacture or distribute may be alleged to cause personal injury, subjecting us to product liability claims. We also may be named in breach of contract claims or qui tam actions (false claims cases initiated by private parties purporting to act on behalf of federal or state governments). Our Medical segment's manufacturing businesses operate in an industry characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation. Patent litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or force us to make royalty payments in order to continue selling the affected products. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these legal proceedings could adversely affect our cash flows or results of operations. Acquisitions can have unanticipated results.An important element of our growth strategy has been to acquire other businesses that expand or complement our existing businesses. In fiscal 2015, we spent $503 million to acquire other businesses, and we acquired Harvard Drug in July 2015 for $1.1 billion and entered into an agreement to acquire Cordis for $1.9 billion. Acquisitions involve risks: we may overpay for a business or fail to realize the synergies and other benefits we expect from the acquisition; future developments may impair the value of our purchased goodwill or intangible assets; or we may encounter unforeseen accounting, internal control, regulatory or compliance issues. Once completed, the Cordis acquisition will subject us to additional risks relating to regulatory matters, legal proceedings, tax laws or positions and, as discussed later in this section, global operations.We depend on certain suppliers to make their raw materials and products available to us and are subject to fluctuations in costs of raw materials and products.We depend on the availability of various components, compounds, raw materials (including radioisotopes) and energy supplied by others for our operations. Any of our supplier relationships could be interrupted due to events beyond our control, including natural  disasters, or could be terminated. A sustained supply interruption could have an adverse effect on our business. Our manufacturing businesses use oil-based resins, cotton, latex and other commodities as raw materials in many products. Prices of oil and gas also affect our distribution and transportation costs. Prices of these commodities are volatile and can fluctuate significantly, causing our costs to produce and distribute our products to fluctuate. Due to competitive dynamics and contractual limitations, we may be unable to pass along cost increases through higher prices. If we cannot fully offset cost increases through other cost reductions, or recover these costs through price increases or surcharges, our results of operations could be adversely affected.Our results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency, or other credit failure of a customer or supplier that has a substantial amount owed to us.Most of our customers buy products and services from us on credit, which is made available to customers based on our assessment of creditworthiness. In addition, our relationships with suppliers give rise to amounts owed to us for returned or defective goods and chargebacks, and amounts due to us for services provided to the suppliers. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of any customer or supplier that has a substantial amount owed to us could adversely affect our results of operations.Our global operations are subject to economic, political and currency risks.We conduct our operations in various regions of the world outside of the United States, including North America, South America, Europe and Asia. The scope and complexity of our international operations will expand with the acquisition of Cordis. Global economic and regulatory developments can affect our business in many ways. Our global operations are affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, currency volatility and competition. Political changes also can disrupt our global operations, as well as our customers and suppliers, in a particular location. We may not be able to hedge to protect us against these risks, and any hedges may not successfully mitigate these risks. Divergent or unfamiliar regulatory systems and labor markets can increase the risks and burdens of operating in numerous countries.Economic conditions may adversely affect demand for our products and services.Deterioration in general economic conditions in the United States and other countries in which we do business could adversely affect the amount of prescriptions filled and the number of medical procedures undertaken and, therefore, reduce purchases of our products and services by our customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, deteriorating economic conditions may increase bankruptcies, insolvencies or other credit failures of customers or suppliers, which, if they have a substantial amount owed to us, also could adversely affect our results of operations. Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2015 Form 10-K 36Properties and Legal Proceedings