Risk Factors  Risk FactorsThe risks described below could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. These are not the only risks we face. Our businesses also could be affected by risks that we are not presently aware of or that we currently consider immaterial to our operations. We could suffer the adverse effects of competitive pressures.As described in greater detail in the "Business" section, we operate in markets that are highly competitive. Because of competition, our businesses face continued pricing pressure from our customers and suppliers. If we are unable to offset margin reductions caused by these pricing pressures through steps such as sourcing or cost control measures, additional service offerings and sales of higher margin products, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.Our Pharmaceutical segment’s generic pharmaceutical program could be adversely affected by price declines and fewer generic product launches.Prices for generic pharmaceuticals generally decline over time. Although some generic products may experience price appreciation which can positively affect our margins, we may not be able to predict whether (and if so, for how long and at what magnitude) such price appreciation will be sustained. The number of generic products experiencing price declines or appreciation and the magnitude of price changes is uncertain in future fiscal years, and could have a negative impact on our year-over-year margins.The number of new generic pharmaceutical launches also varies from year to year, and the margin impact of these launches varies from product to product. Fewer generic product launches or launches that are less profitable than prior launches will have an adverse effect on our year-over-year margin growth.Our generic pharmaceutical program has benefited from sourcing generic pharmaceuticals through our Red Oak Sourcing venture with CVS Health, which sources for both us and CVS Health. If the venture does not continue to be successful, our margins could be adversely affected.Our Pharmaceutical segment’s margins under our distribution agreements with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers are affected by service fees we receive from the manufacturers and prices established by the manufacturers.Our distribution agreements with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers generally provide that we receive fees from the manufacturers to compensate us for the services we provide them. Under some agreements, branded pharmaceutical price appreciation also serves as part of our compensation. If our service fees are reduced or, in cases where part of our compensation is branded price appreciation, if manufacturers determine not to increase prices or to implement only modest increases, our margins may be adversely affected. Our business is subject to rigorous regulatory and licensing requirements.As described in greater detail in the "Business" section, our business is highly regulated in the United States, at both the federal and state level, and in foreign countries. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, or if allegations are made that we fail to comply, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.To lawfully operate our businesses, we are required to obtain and hold permits, product registrations, licenses and other regulatory approvals from, and to comply with operating and security standards of, numerous governmental bodies. Failure to maintain or renew necessary permits, product registrations, licenses or approvals, or to comply with required standards, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Products that we manufacture, source, distribute or market must comply with regulatory requirements. Noncompliance or concerns over noncompliance may result in suspension of our ability to distribute, import or manufacture products, product bans, recalls or seizures or criminal or civil sanctions, which, in turn, could result in product liability claims and lawsuits, including class actions. In addition, it can be costly and time-consuming to obtain regulatory approvals or product registrations to market a medical device, and such approvals or registrations might not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. We are required to comply with laws relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The requirements of these laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and it is possible that regulatory authorities could challenge our policies and practices. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be subject to federal or state government investigations or qui tam actions (false claims cases initiated by private parties purporting to act on behalf of federal or state governments), which could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of licenses or the ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Such sanctions and damages could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our Cardinal Health at Home business and a few of our other businesses are Medicare-certified suppliers or participate in state Medicaid programs. In addition, we manufacture pharmaceutical and medical products and repackage pharmaceuticals that are purchased through federal or state healthcare programs. Failure to comply with applicable standards and regulations could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.Our government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations. Failure to comply with applicable rules or regulations or with contractual or other requirements may result in monetary damages and criminal or civil penalties as well as termination of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from government contract work. 35Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K Risk Factors  We collect, handle and maintain patient-identifiable health information and other sensitive personal and financial information, which are subject to federal, state and foreign laws that regulate the use and disclosure of such information. Regulations currently in place continue to evolve, and new laws in this area could further restrict our ability to collect, handle and maintain personal or patient information, or could require us to incur additional compliance costs, either of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Violations of federal, state or foreign laws concerning privacy and data protection could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, breach of contract claims, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation.The U.S. federal government, most U.S. states and many foreign countries have antitrust laws that prohibit certain types of conduct deemed to be anti-competitive. Violations of antitrust laws can result in various sanctions, including criminal and civil penalties. Private plaintiffs also could bring civil lawsuits against us in the United States for alleged antitrust law violations, including claims for treble damages.Our global operations are required to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Chinese anti-corruption laws, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions and U.S. and foreign export control, trade embargo and customs laws. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, we could suffer civil or criminal sanctions.Our China operations are subject to national, regional and local regulations. The regulatory environment in China is evolving, and officials in the Chinese government exercise broad discretion in deciding how to interpret and apply regulations. It is possible that the Chinese government's current or future interpretation and application of existing or new regulations will negatively impact our China operations, result in regulatory investigations or lead to fines or penalties.The acquisition of Cordis significantly expanded the number of countries in which we sell products directly. We are required to comply with the regulatory requirements of each of these countries, including requirements related to product registrations and licensing of medical devices. Additionally, as a result of the Cordis acquisition, we now manufacture and distribute a greater number of products that are implanted in the human body, subjecting us to more complex regulations within the United States and in the foreign countries in which Cordis operates. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, we could suffer civil or criminal sanctions.CVS Health is a large customer that generates a significant amount of our revenue.Our sales and credit concentration is significant. CVS Health accounted for 25 percent of our fiscal 2016 revenue and 22 percent of our gross trade receivable balance at June 30, 2016. If CVS Health were to terminate our agreements with them due to an alleged default by us, default in payment or significantly reduce its purchases of our products and services, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.  We could be subject to adverse changes in the tax laws or challenges to our tax positions.We are a large multinational corporation with operations in the United States and many foreign countries. As a result, we are subject to the tax laws of many jurisdictions. From time to time, legislative initiatives are proposed in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we operate that could adversely affect our tax positions, effective tax rate, tax payments or financial condition. Examples of such initiatives include the repeal of the LIFO (last-in, first-out) method of inventory accounting for income tax purposes, a change in the current U.S. taxation treatment of income from foreign operations, the establishment or increase in taxation at the U.S. state level on the basis of gross revenues, recommendations of the base erosion and profit shifting project undertaken by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Commission’s investigation into illegal state aid.Tax laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations. Tax authorities have challenged some of our tax positions and it is possible that they will challenge others. These challenges may adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments or financial condition.The U.S. healthcare environment is changing in many ways, some of which may not be favorable to us.The U.S. healthcare industry continues to undergo significant changes designed to increase access to medical care, improve safety and patient outcomes, contain costs and increase efficiencies. Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels have generally declined and the basis for payments is changing, shifting away from the traditional fee-for-service model towards value-based payments and risk-sharing models. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has set a goal of tying 50 percent of Medicare reimbursements to alternative payment models by the end of 2018. The use of managed care has increased. Distributors, manufacturers, healthcare providers, insurers and pharmacy chains have consolidated and have formed strategic alliances. Large purchasing groups are also prevalent. The industry is experiencing a shift away from traditional healthcare venues like hospitals and into clinics and physician offices, and, in some cases, patients’ homes. We could be adversely affected directly or indirectly (if our customers or suppliers are adversely affected) by these and other changes in the delivery, pricing or utilization of, or reimbursement for, pharmaceuticals, medical products or healthcare services.Consolidation in the healthcare industry may negatively impact our results of operations.In recent years, the healthcare industry has continued to consolidate. Manufacturers are combining, which may leave us less able to negotiate our service fees with them. Some of our customers also are consolidating, creating larger enterprises with greater negotiating power. Customer consolidations also could result in the possible loss of a customer where the combined enterprise selects one distributor from two incumbents. We expect this consolidation trend among manufacturers and customers to continue, which could adversely affect our results of operations.  Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K36Risk Factors  Our business and operations depend on the proper functioning of information systems, critical facilities and distribution networks. Our business could be adversely affected if we experience a cyber-attack or other systems breach.We rely on our information systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to:•facilitate the purchase and distribution of inventory items from numerous distribution centers;•receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis;•manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers;•process payments to suppliers;•facilitate the manufacturing and assembly of medical products; and•generate financial information.Our business also depends on the proper functioning of our critical facilities, including our national logistics center, and our distribution networks. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if:•our information systems, critical facilities or distribution networks, or our customers' access to these systems, facilities or networks, are disrupted;•our information systems, critical facilities or distribution networks are damaged; or •our information systems, critical facilities or distribution networks fail, whether due to physical disruptions, such as fire, natural disaster, pandemic or power outage, or due to cyber security incidents or other actions of third parties, including terrorism or labor strikes.The Pharmaceutical segment is in a multi-year project to replace certain of its finance and operating information systems. If these new systems are not effectively implemented or they fail to operate as intended, it could adversely affect the Pharmaceutical segment’s supply chain operations and our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, from time to time, other businesses perform business process improvements or infrastructure modernizations or may use third-party service providers for key systems and processes, such as order to cash, customer service and accounts payable. If any of these initiatives are not successfully or efficiently implemented or maintained, they could adversely affect our business and our internal control over financial reporting.Our business relies on the secure transmission, storage and hosting of patient-identifiable health information, financial information and other sensitive information relating to our customers, company and workforce. We have programs in place to detect, contain and respond to information security incidents. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, hardware, software or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information  security. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or to those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery or other forms of deceiving our employees, contractors or vendors. Any compromise of our information systems or of the information systems of a third-party with whom we do business, including unauthorized access to or use or disclosure of sensitive information, could adversely impact our operations, results of operations or our ability to satisfy legal requirements, including those legal requirements related to patient-identifiable health information.Because of the nature of our business, we may become involved in legal proceedings that could adversely impact our cash flows or results of operations.Due to the nature of our businesses, which includes the manufacture and distribution of healthcare products, we may from time to time become involved in disputes or legal proceedings. These include commercial disputes, government contract compliance matters, product liability claims or lawsuits, patent infringement claims, qui tam actions or other legal proceedings.Some of the products that we manufacture or distribute, including the cardiovascular and endovascular products manufactured and distributed by Cordis, have been and may in the future be alleged to cause personal injury, subjecting us to product liability claims. Although we maintain product liability insurance for many products that we manufacture, there are substantial self-insured retentions, conditions or exclusions. There are no guarantees that we can obtain product liability insurance for a particular product we manufacture or if we do obtain insurance, the amount maintained would be adequate to cover any or all current or future claims settlements or judgments. Where we self-insure, we establish reserves based on actuarial methodologies and historical loss trends. However, any settlement or judgment in excess of our insurance limits or that is not otherwise covered could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our manufacturing businesses operate in an industry characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation. Patent litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or force us to make royalty payments in order to continue selling the affected products.Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these legal proceedings could adversely affect our cash flows or results of operations.Acquisitions can have unanticipated results.An important element of our growth strategy has been to acquire other businesses that expand or complement our existing businesses. In fiscal 2016, we spent $3.6 billion to acquire other businesses, including $1.1 billion to acquire Harvard Drug and $1.9 billion to acquire Cordis. Acquisitions involve risks: we may overpay for a business or fail to realize the synergies and other benefits we expect from the acquisition; our management’s attention may be diverted to integration efforts; we may fail to retain key personnel of the acquired business; future developments may impair the value of our purchased goodwill or intangible assets; we may face difficulties establishing or combining operations and systems; we may assume  37Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K Risk Factors  liabilities related to litigation or other legal proceedings involving the acquired business; we may face challenges retaining the customers of the acquired business; or we may encounter unforeseen internal control, regulatory or compliance issues.We depend on certain suppliers to make their raw materials and products available to us and are subject to fluctuations in costs of raw materials and products.We depend on the availability of various components, compounds, raw materials (including radioisotopes) and energy supplied by others for our operations. Any of our supplier relationships could be interrupted due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, or could be terminated. A sustained supply interruption could have an adverse effect on our business.Our manufacturing businesses use oil-based resins, cotton, latex and other commodities as raw materials in many products. Prices of oil and gas also affect our distribution and transportation costs. Prices of these commodities are volatile and can fluctuate significantly, causing our costs to produce and distribute our products to fluctuate. Due to competitive dynamics and contractual limitations, we may be unable to pass along cost increases through higher prices. If we cannot fully offset cost increases through other cost reductions, or recover these costs through price increases or surcharges, our results of operations could be adversely affected.Our results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency, or other credit failure of a customer that has a substantial amount owed to us.Most of our customers buy products and services from us on credit, which is made available to customers based on our assessment of creditworthiness. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of any customer that has a substantial amount owed to us could adversely affect our results of operations. Our Cordis acquisition increased the extent of our exposure to the economic, political and currency risks of international operations.We conduct our operations in various regions of the world outside of the United States, including North America, South America, Europe and Asia. The scope and complexity of our international operations expanded with the acquisition of Cordis and we may continue to expand our operations outside the United States. Global developments can affect our business in many ways. Our global operations are affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession and competition. In addition, we conduct our business in U.S. dollars and various functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial results, which are reported in U.S. dollars. We may not be able to hedge to protect us against these exposures, and any hedges may not successfully mitigate these exposures. Political changes also can disrupt our global operations, as well as our customers and suppliers, in a particular location. Divergent or unfamiliar regulatory systems and labor markets also can increase the risks and burdens of operating in numerous countries. Economic conditions may adversely affect demand for our products and services.Deterioration in general economic conditions in the United States and other countries in which we do business could adversely affect the amount of prescriptions filled and the number of medical procedures undertaken and, therefore, reduce purchases of our products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, deteriorating economic conditions may increase bankruptcies, insolvencies or other credit failures of customers or suppliers, which, if they have a substantial amount owed to us, also could adversely affect our results of operations. Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K38Properties and Legal Proceedings