Risk Factors  Risk FactorsThe risks described below could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. These are not the only risks we face. Our businesses also could be affected by risks that we are not presently aware of or that we currently consider immaterial to our operations. We could suffer the adverse effects of competitive pressures.As described in greater detail in the "Business" section, we operate in markets that are highly competitive. Because of competition, our businesses face continued pricing pressure from our customers and suppliers. If we are unable to offset margin reductions caused by these pricing pressures through steps such as sourcing or cost control measures, additional service offerings and sales of higher margin products, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.Our Pharmaceutical segment’s generic pharmaceutical program could be adversely affected by pricing changes and fewer product launches.Prices for generic pharmaceuticals generally decline over time. During fiscal 2017, generic pharmaceutical customer pricing changes negatively impacted Pharmaceutical segment profit and our consolidated operating earnings and are expected to have a similar negative effect in fiscal 2018. At times, some generic pharmaceuticals may experience price appreciation, which can positively affect our margins. The number of generic pharmaceuticals experiencing price appreciation or declines and the magnitude of pricing changes is uncertain in future fiscal years, and could adversely affect our margins.The number of new generic pharmaceutical launches also varies from year to year, and the margin impact of these launches varies from product to product. Fewer product launches or launches that are less profitable than prior launches could adversely affect our margins.Our generic pharmaceutical program has benefited from sourcing generic pharmaceuticals through our Red Oak Sourcing venture with CVS, which sources for both us and CVS. If the venture does not continue to be successful, our margins could be adversely affected.Our Pharmaceutical segment’s margins under our distribution services agreements with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers are affected by service fees we receive from the manufacturers and prices established by the manufacturers.Our distribution services agreements with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers generally provide that we receive fees from the manufacturers to compensate us for the services we provide them. Under some agreements, branded pharmaceutical price appreciation also serves as part of our compensation. If our service fees are reduced or, in cases where our compensation is based in part on branded pharmaceutical price appreciation, if manufacturers determine not to increase prices or to implement only small increases, our margins could be adversely affected. Our business is subject to rigorous regulatory and licensing requirements.As described in greater detail in the "Business" section, our business is highly regulated in the United States, at both the federal and state level, and in foreign countries. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, or if allegations are made that we fail to comply, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.To lawfully operate our businesses, we are required to obtain and hold permits, product registrations, licenses and other regulatory approvals from, and to comply with operating and security standards of, numerous governmental bodies. For example, as a wholesale distributor of controlled substances, we must hold valid DEA registrations and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards, and comply with the CSA. Failure to maintain or renew necessary permits, product registrations, licenses or approvals, or to comply with required standards, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Products that we manufacture, source, distribute or market must comply with regulatory requirements. Noncompliance or concerns over noncompliance may result in suspension of our ability to distribute, import or manufacture products, product bans, recalls or seizures, or criminal or civil sanctions, which, in turn, could result in product liability claims and lawsuits, including class actions. In addition, it can be costly and time-consuming to obtain regulatory approvals or product registrations to market a medical device, and such approvals or registrations might not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. We are required to comply with laws relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The requirements of these laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and it is possible that regulatory authorities could challenge our policies and practices. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be subject to federal or state government investigations or qui tam actions (false claims cases initiated by private parties purporting to act on behalf of federal or state governments), which could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of licenses or the ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Such sanctions and damages could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Some businesses within each of our segments are Medicare-certified suppliers or participate in other federal and state healthcare programs, such as state Medicaid program and the federal 340B drug pricing program. In addition, other businesses within each segment manufacture pharmaceutical or medical products or repackage pharmaceuticals that are purchased or reimbursed through, or are otherwise governed by, federal or state healthcare programs. Failure to comply with applicable eligibility requirements, standards and regulations could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.  Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K30Risk Factors  Our government contracts are subject to specific procurement requirements. Failure to comply with applicable rules or regulations or with contractual or other requirements may result in monetary damages and criminal or civil penalties as well as termination of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from government contract work.We collect, handle and maintain patient-identifiable health information and other sensitive personal and financial information, which are subject to federal, state and foreign laws that regulate the use and disclosure of such information. Regulations currently in place continue to evolve, and new laws in this area could further restrict our ability to collect, handle and maintain personal or patient information, or could require us to incur additional compliance costs, either of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Violations of federal, state or foreign laws concerning privacy and data protection could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, breach of contract claims, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation.Our global operations are required to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Chinese anti-corruption laws, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions and U.S. and foreign export control, trade embargo and customs laws. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, we could suffer civil or criminal sanctions.Our China operations are subject to national, regional and local regulations. The regulatory environment in China is evolving, and officials in the Chinese government exercise broad discretion in deciding how to interpret and apply regulations. It is possible that the Chinese government's current or future interpretation and application of existing or new regulations will negatively impact our China operations, result in regulatory investigations or lead to fines or penalties.CVS is a large customer that generates a significant amount of our revenue.Our sales and credit concentration is significant. CVS accounted for 23 percent of our fiscal 2017 revenue and 20 percent of our gross trade receivable balance at June 30, 2017. Our pharmaceutical distribution agreements with CVS extend through June 2019. If CVS does not renew our agreements with them, terminates the agreements due to an alleged default by us, defaults in payment or significantly reduces its purchases from us, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We could be subject to adverse changes in the tax laws or challenges to our tax positions.We are a large multinational corporation with operations in the United States and many foreign countries. As a result, we are subject to the tax laws of many jurisdictions. From time to time, legislative initiatives are proposed in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we operate that could adversely affect our tax positions, effective tax rate or tax payments. Examples of such initiatives include the repeal of the LIFO (last-in, first-out) method of inventory accounting for income tax purposes, a change in the current U.S. taxation treatment of income from foreign operations, new U.S. import tariffs or taxes, the establishment or  increase in taxation at the U.S. state level on the basis of gross revenues, recommendations of the base erosion and profit shifting project undertaken by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Commission’s investigation into illegal state aid.Tax laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations. Tax authorities have challenged some of our tax positions and it is possible that they will challenge others. These challenges may adversely affect our effective tax rate or tax payments.Changes to the U.S. healthcare environment may not be favorable to us.In recent years, the U.S. healthcare industry has undergone significant changes designed to increase access to medical care, improve safety and patient outcomes, contain costs and increase efficiencies. These changes include adoption of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, a general decline in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels, efforts by healthcare insurance companies to limit or reduce payments to pharmacies and providers, the basis for payments beginning to transition from a fee-for-service model to value-based payments and risk-sharing models, and the industry shifting away from traditional healthcare venues like hospitals and into clinics, physician offices and patients’ homes. We expect the U.S. healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Possible changes include repeal and replacement of major parts of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, further reduction or limitations on governmental funding at the state or federal level, efforts by healthcare insurance companies to further limit payments for products and services or changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription pharmaceutical pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits. These possible changes, and the uncertainty surrounding these possible changes, may cause healthcare industry participants to reduce the amount of products and services they purchase from us or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services, which could adversely affect us.Consolidation in the U.S. healthcare industry may negatively impact our results of operations.In recent years, U.S. healthcare industry participants, including distributors, manufacturers, healthcare providers, insurers and pharmacy chains, have consolidated or formed strategic alliances. Consolidations create larger enterprises with greater negotiating power, and also could result in the possible loss of a customer where the combined enterprise selects one distributor from two incumbents. If this consolidation trend continues, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business and operations depend on the proper functioning of information systems, critical facilities and distribution networks. Our business could be adversely affected if we experience a cyber-attack or other systems breach.We rely on our and third-party service providers' information systems for a wide variety of critical operations, including to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to:•facilitate the purchase and distribution of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; 31Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K Risk Factors  •receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis;•manage accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers;•process payments to suppliers;•facilitate manufacturing and assembly of medical products; and•generate financial information.Our business also depends on the proper functioning of our critical facilities, including our national logistics center, and our distribution networks. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if our or a service provider's information systems, critical facilities or distribution networks are disrupted (including disruption of access), are damaged or fail, whether due to physical disruptions, such as fire, natural disaster, pandemic or power outage, or due to cyber-security incidents, ransomware or other actions of third parties, including labor strikes, political unrest and terrorist attacks. Manufacturing disruptions also can occur due to regulatory action, production quality deviations, safety issues or raw material shortages or defects, or because a key product is manufactured at a single manufacturing facility with limited alternate facilities.The Pharmaceutical segment is in a multi-year project to replace certain of its finance and operating information systems. If these new systems are not effectively implemented or they fail to operate as intended, it could adversely affect the Pharmaceutical segment’s supply chain operations and our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, from time to time, other businesses perform business process improvements or infrastructure modernizations or use service providers for key systems and processes, such as receiving and processing customer orders, customer service and accounts payable. If any of these initiatives are not successfully or efficiently implemented or maintained, they could adversely affect our business and our internal control over financial reporting.Our business relies on the secure transmission, storage and hosting of patient-identifiable health information, financial information and other sensitive information relating to our customers, company and workforce. We have programs in place to detect, contain and respond to information security incidents. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, hardware, software or applications developed internally or procured from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. Unauthorized parties also may attempt to gain access to our or a service provider's systems or facilities through fraud, trickery or other forms of deception. Any compromise of our or a service provider's information systems, including unauthorized access to or use or disclosure of sensitive information, could adversely impact our operations, results of operations or our ability to satisfy legal requirements, including those related to patient-identifiable health information.We may become involved in legal proceedings that could adversely impact our cash flows or results of operations. Due to the nature of our business, which includes the distribution of controlled substances and the manufacture of medical products, we may from time to time become involved in disputes, litigation and regulatory matters. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and the unfavorable outcome of one or more of these legal proceedings could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.For example, a number of governmental entities (including counties and municipalities) have filed lawsuits against pharmaceutical wholesale distributors (including us), pharmaceutical manufacturers and retail chains relating to the distribution of prescription opioid pain medications. Some states and other governmental entities have indicated they are considering filing similar lawsuits. We are vigorously defending ourselves in these lawsuits. The defense and resolution of these current and future lawsuits could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See Note 8 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" regarding these matters.Some of the products that we distribute or manufacture have been and may in the future be alleged to cause personal injury, subjecting us to product liability claims. For example, we are a defendant in product liability lawsuits that allege personal injuries associated with the use of Cordis OptEase and TrapEase inferior vena cava (IVC) filter products and we have accrued an amount for losses and legal defense costs related to these lawsuits, which are discussed in Note 8 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." Any settlement of or judgment for a product liability claim that is not covered by insurance and is in excess of any prior accruals could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We also operate in an industry characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation. Patent litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or force us to make royalty payments in order to continue selling the affected products.Acquisitions can have unanticipated results.An important element of our growth strategy has been to acquire other businesses that expand or complement our existing businesses. In fiscal 2017, we spent $132 million to acquire other businesses and in July 2017, we acquired the Patient Recovery Business from Medtronic for $6.1 billion. The acquisition of the Patient Recovery Business as well as other acquisitions involve the following risks: we may overpay for a business or fail to realize the synergies and other benefits we expect from the acquisition; our management’s attention may be diverted to integration efforts; we may fail to retain key personnel of the acquired business; future developments may impair the value of our purchased goodwill or intangible assets; we may face difficulties or delays establishing, integrating or combining operations and systems; we may assume liabilities related to legal proceedings involving the acquired business; we may face challenges retaining the customers of the acquired business; or we may encounter unforeseen internal control, regulatory or compliance issues. We depend on certain suppliers to make their raw materials and products available to us and are subject to fluctuations in costs of raw materials and products. Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K32Risk Factors  We depend on the availability of various components, compounds, raw materials and energy supplied by others for our operations. In some instances, for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, or availability, we procure certain components and raw materials from a sole supplier. Any of our supplier relationships could be interrupted due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, or could be terminated. In addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the FDA regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. A sustained supply reduction or interruption, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could have an adverse effect on our business.Our manufacturing businesses use oil-based resins, pulp, cotton, latex and other commodities as raw materials in many products. Prices of oil and gas also affect our distribution and transportation costs. Prices of these commodities are volatile and can fluctuate significantly, causing our costs to produce and distribute our products to fluctuate. Due to competitive dynamics and contractual limitations, we may be unable to pass along cost increases through higher prices. If we cannot fully offset cost increases through other cost reductions, or recover these costs through price increases or surcharges, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency, or other credit failure of a customer that has a substantial amount owed to us.Most of our customers buy products and services from us on credit, which is made available to customers based on our assessment of creditworthiness. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of any customer that has a substantial amount owed to us could adversely affect our results of operations.Recent acquisitions have increased the extent of our exposure to the economic, political and currency risks of international operations.We conduct our operations in various regions of the world outside of the United States, including Europe and Asia. The scope and complexity of our international operations expanded with the acquisitions of Cordis and the Patient Recovery Business and we may continue to expand our operations outside the United States. Global developments can affect our business in many ways. Our  global operations are affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession and competition. In addition, we conduct our business in U.S. dollars and various functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial results, which are reported in U.S. dollars. We may not be able to hedge to protect us against these exposures, and any hedges may not successfully mitigate these exposures. Political changes also can disrupt our global operations, as well as our customers and suppliers, in a particular location. Divergent or unfamiliar regulatory systems and labor markets also can increase the risks and burdens of operating in numerous countries. Our goodwill may become impaired, which would require us to record a significant charge to earnings in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.U.S. GAAP requires us to test our goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicators for potential impairment exist. The testing required by GAAP involves estimates and judgments by management. Although we believe our assumptions and estimates are reasonable and appropriate, any changes in key assumptions, including a failure to meet business plans or other unanticipated events and circumstances such as a rise in interest rates, may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined, which charge could adversely affect our results of operations. See "Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates" in MD&A above for more information regarding goodwill impairment testing.Economic conditions may adversely affect demand for our products and services.Deterioration in general economic conditions in the United States and other countries in which we do business could adversely affect the amount of prescriptions filled and the number of medical procedures undertaken and, therefore, reduce purchases of our products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, deteriorating economic conditions may increase bankruptcies, insolvencies or other credit failures of customers or suppliers, which, if they have a substantial amount owed to us, also could adversely affect our results of operations. 33Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K Properties and Legal Proceedings