Risk Factors  Risk FactorsThe risks described below could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. These are not the only risks we face. Our businesses also could be affected by risks that we are not presently aware of or that we currently consider immaterial to our operations. We could continue to suffer the adverse effects of competitive pressures.As described in greater detail in the "Business" section, we operate in markets that are highly competitive and dynamic. In addition, competitive pressures in our pharmaceutical and medical segments may be increased by new business models, new entrants, new regulations, changes in consumer demand or general competitive dynamics. Our businesses face continued pricing pressure from these factors, which adversely affects our margins. If we are unable to offset margin reductions caused by these pricing pressures through steps such as sourcing or cost control measures, additional service offerings and sales of higher margin products, our results of operations could continue to be adversely affected.Our Pharmaceutical segment’s generic pharmaceutical program may continue to be adversely affected by pricing changes and fewer product launches.The performance of our Pharmaceutical segment’s generic pharmaceutical program declined in fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017 and is expected to decline again in fiscal 2020. These declines have been due, in large part, to generic pharmaceutical customer pricing deflation and less incremental benefit from new generic pharmaceutical launches, which have more than offset the benefits from sourcing generic pharmaceuticals through our Red Oak Sourcing venture with CVS. If performance of the generic pharmaceutical program continues to decline and we continue to be unable to offset the decline, our Pharmaceutical segment profit and consolidated operating earnings will continue to be adversely affected.The extent and magnitude of generic pharmaceutical pricing changes is uncertain in future fiscal years and may vary from what we anticipate. Similarly, the number of new generic pharmaceutical launches also varies from year to year, and the margin impact of these launches varies from product to product. Finally, the benefit from Red Oak Sourcing could be less than we anticipate.Changes in manufacturer approaches to pricing branded pharmaceutical products could have an adverse effect on our Pharmaceutical segment’s margins.Compensation under our contractual arrangements with manufacturers for the purchase of branded pharmaceutical products is generally based on the wholesale acquisition cost set by the manufacturer. Sales prices of branded pharmaceutical products to our customers generally are a percentage discount from wholesale acquisition cost. Historically, pharmaceutical manufacturers have generally increased the wholesale acquisition cost of their branded pharmaceuticals each year. However, the U.S. government has announced plans to, among  other things, adopt policies to encourage manufacturers to limit increases in (or reduce) wholesale acquisition cost. In fiscal 2019, manufacturers, in the aggregate, increased prices less than in prior years. If manufacturers change their historical approach to setting and increasing wholesale acquisition cost and we are unable to negotiate alternative ways to be compensated by manufacturers or customers for the value of our services, our Pharmaceutical segment profit and consolidated operating earnings could be adversely affected.Also, almost all of our distribution services agreements with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers generally provide that we receive fees from the manufacturers to compensate us for services we provide them. However, under a limited number of agreements, branded pharmaceutical price appreciation, which is determined by the manufacturers also serves as a part of our compensation. If manufacturers decide to reduce prices, not to increase prices or to implement only small increases and we are unable to negotiate alternative ways to be compensated by manufacturers or customers for the value of our services, our margins could be adversely affected.The public health crisis involving the abuse of prescription opioid pain medication could have a material negative effect on our business.Our Pharmaceutical segment distributes prescription opioid pain medications. In recent years, the abuse of prescription opioid pain medication has become a public health crisis. A significant number of counties, municipalities and other plaintiffs, including a number of state attorneys general, have filed lawsuits against pharmaceutical manufacturers, pharmaceutical wholesale distributors (including us), retail chains and others relating to the manufacturing, marketing or distribution of prescription opioid pain medications. In addition, we are currently being investigated or sued by most other states for the same activities and expect to be named as a defendant in additional lawsuits. We are vigorously defending ourselves in these lawsuits. The defense and resolution of current and future lawsuits and events relating to these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or liquidity or have adverse reputational or operational effects on our business. See Note 8 of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" for more information regarding these matters.Other legislative, regulatory or industry measures related to the public health crisis involving the abuse of prescription opioid pain medication and the distribution of these medications could affect our business in ways that we may not be able to predict. For example, several states have now adopted taxes or other fees on the sale of opioids, and several other states have proposed similar legislative initiatives. These laws and proposals vary in the tax amounts imposed and the means of calculation. Liabilities for taxes or assessments under any such laws could have an adverse impact on our results of operations unless we are able to mitigate them through operational changes or commercial arrangements where permitted. Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K32Risk Factors  Ongoing unfavorable publicity regarding the abuse or misuse of prescription opioid pain medications and the role of wholesale distributors in the supply chain of such prescription medications, as well as the continued proliferation of the opioid lawsuits, investigations, regulations and legislative actions, and unfavorable publicity in relation to those lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our reputation or results of operations.Our business is subject to rigorous regulatory and licensing requirements.As described in greater detail in the "Business" section, our business is highly regulated in the United States, at both the federal and state level, and in foreign countries. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, or if allegations are made that we fail to comply, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.To lawfully operate our businesses, we are required to obtain and hold permits, product registrations, licenses and other regulatory approvals from, and to comply with operating and security standards of, numerous governmental bodies. For example, as a wholesale distributor of controlled substances, we must hold valid DEA registrations and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards, and comply with the CSA. Failure to maintain or renew necessary permits, product registrations, licenses or approvals, or to comply with required standards, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Products that we manufacture, source, distribute or market must comply with regulatory requirements. Noncompliance or concerns over noncompliance may result in suspension of our ability to distribute, import or manufacture products, product bans, recalls or seizures, or criminal or civil sanctions, which, in turn, could result in product liability claims and lawsuits, including class actions. In addition, it can be costly and time-consuming to obtain regulatory approvals or product registrations to market a medical device, and such approvals or registrations might not be granted on a timely basis, if at all.We collect, handle and maintain patient-identifiable health information and other sensitive personal and financial information, which are subject to federal, state and foreign laws that regulate the use and disclosure of such information. Regulations currently in place continue to evolve, and new laws in this area could further restrict our ability to collect, handle and maintain personal or patient information, or could require us to incur additional compliance costs, either of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Violations of federal, state or foreign laws concerning privacy and data protection could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, breach of contract claims, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation.We are required to comply with laws relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The requirements of these laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations. From time to time, regulatory authorities investigate our policies or practices, and may challenge them. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be subject to federal or state government investigations or qui tam actions (false claims cases initiated by private parties purporting to act on behalf of federal or  state governments), which could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of licenses or the ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Such sanctions and damages could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Some businesses within each of our segments are Medicare-certified suppliers or participate in other federal and state healthcare programs, such as state Medicaid program and the federal 340B drug pricing program. In addition, some businesses within each segment manufacture pharmaceutical or medical products or repackage pharmaceuticals that are purchased or reimbursed through, or are otherwise governed by, federal or state healthcare programs. Failure to comply with applicable eligibility requirements, standards and regulations could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.Our government contracts are subject to specific procurement requirements. Failure to comply with applicable rules or regulations or with contractual or other requirements may result in monetary damages and criminal or civil penalties as well as termination of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from government contract work.Our global operations are required to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions and U.S. and foreign export control, trade embargo and customs laws. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, we could suffer civil or criminal sanctions.We could be subject to adverse changes in the tax laws or challenges to our tax positions.We are a large multinational corporation with operations in the United States and many foreign countries. As a result, we are subject to the tax laws of many jurisdictions.From time to time, initiatives are proposed in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we operate that could adversely affect our tax positions, effective tax rate or tax payments. Specific initiatives that may impact us include the repeal of the LIFO (last-in, first-out) method of inventory accounting for income tax purposes, the establishment or increase in taxation at the U.S. state level on the basis of gross revenues, recommendations of the recently completed base erosion and profit shifting project undertaken by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Commission’s investigation into illegal state aid.Tax laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations. Tax authorities have challenged some of our tax positions and it is possible that they will challenge others. These challenges may adversely affect our effective tax rate or tax payments.Changes to the U.S. healthcare environment may not be favorable to us.Over a number of years, the U.S. healthcare industry has undergone significant changes designed to increase access to medical care, improve safety and patient outcomes, contain costs and increase efficiencies. These changes include adoption of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, a general decline in Medicare  33Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K Risk Factors  and Medicaid reimbursement levels, efforts by healthcare insurance companies to limit or reduce payments to pharmacies and providers, the basis for payments beginning to transition from a fee-for-service model to value-based payments and risk-sharing models, and the industry shifting away from traditional healthcare venues like hospitals and into clinics, physician offices and patients’ homes.We expect the U.S. healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Possible changes include repeal and replacement of major parts of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, further reduction or limitations on governmental funding at the state or federal level, efforts by healthcare insurance companies to further limit payments for products and services or changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription pharmaceutical pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits. These possible changes, and the uncertainty surrounding these possible changes, may cause healthcare industry participants to reduce the amount of products and services they purchase from us or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services, which could adversely affect us.Our business and operations depend on the proper functioning of information systems, critical facilities and distribution networks. We rely on our and third-party service providers' information systems for a wide variety of critical operations, including to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to:•facilitate the purchase and distribution of inventory items from numerous distribution centers;•receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis;•manage accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers;•process payments to suppliers;•facilitate manufacturing and assembly of medical products; and•generate financial information.Our business also depends on the proper functioning of our critical facilities, including our national logistics center, and our distribution networks. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if our or a service provider's information systems, critical facilities or distribution networks are disrupted (including disruption of access), are damaged or fail, whether due to physical disruptions, such as fire, natural disaster, pandemic or power outage, or due to cyber-security incidents, ransomware or other actions of third parties, including labor strikes, political unrest and terrorist attacks. Manufacturing disruptions also can occur due to regulatory action, production quality deviations, safety issues or raw material shortages or defects, or because a key product or component is manufactured at a single manufacturing facility with limited alternate facilities.From time to time, our businesses perform business process improvements or infrastructure modernizations or use service providers for key systems and processes, such as receiving and processing customer orders, customer service and accounts payable. If any of these initiatives are not successfully or efficiently  implemented or maintained, they could adversely affect our business and our internal control over financial reporting.Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we experience a cyber-attack or other systems breach.Our business relies on the secure transmission, storage and hosting of patient-identifiable health information, financial information and other sensitive information relating to our customers, company and workforce. We have programs in place to detect, contain and respond to information security incidents. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, hardware, software or applications developed internally or procured from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. Unauthorized parties have gained access and will continue to attempt to gain access to our or a service provider's systems or facilities through fraud, trickery or other forms of deception. We have been the target of cyber attacks, including incidents where certain customer account information was accessed. Although we do not believe these incidents had a material impact on us, similar incidents or events in the future may negatively impact our business, reputation or financial results. Any compromise of our or a service provider's information systems, including unauthorized access to or use or disclosure of sensitive information, could adversely impact our operations, results of operations or our ability to satisfy legal or regulatory requirements, including the new EU general data protection regulation (GDPR) and those related to patient-identifiable health information as further described in the Risk Factor titled “Our business is subject to rigorous regulatory and licensing requirements,” above. CVS is a large customer that generates a significant amount of our revenue.Our sales and credit concentration is significant. CVS accounted for 26 percent of our fiscal 2019 revenue and 24 percent of our gross trade receivable balance at June 30, 2019. In May 2019, we extended our pharmaceutical distribution agreements with CVS through fiscal 2023. If CVS does not renew our agreements, terminates the agreements due to an alleged default by us, defaults in payment or significantly reduces its purchases from us, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.Consolidation in the U.S. healthcare industry may negatively impact our results of operations.In recent years, U.S. healthcare industry participants, including distributors, manufacturers, suppliers, healthcare providers, insurers and pharmacy chains, have consolidated or formed strategic alliances. Consolidations create larger enterprises with greater negotiating power, and also could result in the possible loss of a customer where the combined enterprise selects one distributor from  Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K34Risk Factors  two incumbents. If this consolidation trend continues, it could adversely affect our results of operations.We may become involved in legal proceedings that could adversely impact our cash flows or results of operations.Due to the nature of our business, which includes the distribution of controlled substances and the manufacture of medical products, we regularly become involved in disputes, litigation and regulatory matters. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and the unfavorable outcome of one or more of these legal proceedings could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.For example, we are subject to a number of lawsuits and investigations related to the national health crisis involving the abuse of opioid pain medication as described above in the Risk Factor titled "The public health crisis involving the abuse of prescription opioid pain medication could negatively affect our business" and in Note 8 to the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."Additionally, some of the products that we distribute or manufacture have been and may in the future be alleged to cause personal injury, subjecting us to product liability claims. For example, we are a defendant in product liability lawsuits that allege personal injuries associated with the use of Cordis OptEase and TrapEase inferior vena cava (IVC) filter products. We have accrued an amount for losses and legal defense costs related to these lawsuits, which are discussed in Note 8 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." Any settlement of or judgment for a product liability claim that is not covered by insurance and is in excess of any prior accruals could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We also operate in an industry characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation. Patent litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or force us to make royalty payments in order to continue selling the affected products.Our ability to manage and complete acquisitions could impact our strategic objectives and financial condition.An important element of our growth strategy has been to acquire other businesses that expand or complement our existing businesses. Completion of acquisitions and the integration of acquired businesses involve a number of risks, including the following: we may overpay for a business or fail to realize the synergies and other benefits we expect from the acquisition; our management’s attention may be diverted to integration efforts; we may fail to retain key personnel of the acquired business; future developments may impair the value of our purchased goodwill or intangible assets; we may face difficulties or delays establishing, integrating or combining operations and systems, including manufacturing facilities; we may assume liabilities related to legal proceedings involving the acquired business; we may face challenges retaining the customers of the acquired business; or we may encounter unforeseen internal control, regulatory or compliance issues. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if we fail to manage and complete divestitures. We regularly evaluate our portfolio of businesses to determine whether an asset or business may no longer help us meet our objectives or whether there may be a more advantaged owner for that business. For example, over the past two fiscal years, we divested our pharmaceutical and medical products distribution business in China and our ownership interest in naviHealth, Inc. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty finding buyers or alternative exit strategies, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. We could also experience greater dis-synergies than expected and the impact of the divestiture on our results of operations could be greater than anticipated.We depend on certain suppliers to make their raw materials and products available to us and are subject to fluctuations in costs of raw materials and products.We depend on the availability of various components, compounds, raw materials and energy supplied by others for our operations. In some instances, for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, or availability, we procure certain components and raw materials from a sole supplier. Any of our supplier relationships could be interrupted or become less favorable due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, U.S. or international foreign policy, including tariffs, or could be terminated. In addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the FDA regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. A sustained supply reduction or interruption, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could have an adverse effect on our business.Our manufacturing businesses use oil-based resins, pulp, cotton, latex and other commodities as raw materials in many products. Prices of oil and gas also affect our distribution and transportation costs. Prices of these commodities are volatile and can fluctuate significantly, causing our costs to produce and distribute our products to fluctuate. Due to competitive dynamics and contractual limitations, we may be unable to pass along cost increases through higher prices. If we cannot fully offset cost increases through other cost reductions, or recover these costs through price increases or surcharges, our results of operations could be adversely affected.We may not realize the expected benefits from our restructuring and cost-savings initiatives.We recently announced that we will be undertaking certain cost-savings initiatives intended to simplify our operating model and cost structure, and we expect to identify and enter into similar initiatives in the future. These initiatives could result in unexpected charges and expenses that negatively impact our financial results or we could fail to achieve the desired efficiencies and estimated cost savings.Additionally, these types of initiatives could yield unintended consequences such as distraction of management and employees, business disruption, an inability to attract or retain key personnel,  35Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K Risk Factors  which could negatively affect our business or financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to effectively develop, implement and manage our outsourcing or similar third-party relationships, we may experience operational difficulties and increased costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of our international operations, we have exposure to economic, political and currency risks.We conduct our operations in various regions of the world outside of the United States, including Europe, Asia and Latin America. Global developments can affect our business in many ways. Our global operations are affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession and competition. Additionally, divergent or unfamiliar regulatory systems and labor markets also can increase the risks and burdens of operating in numerous countries.In addition, we conduct our business in U.S. dollars and various functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial results, which are reported in U.S. dollars. We may not be able to hedge to protect us against these exposures, and any hedges may not successfully mitigate these exposures. Changes or uncertainty in U.S. or international trade policies or tariffs could disrupt our global operations or negatively impact our financial results.Our foreign operations expose us to a number of risks related to trade protection laws, tariffs, excise or other border taxes on goods sourced from certain countries or on the importation or exportation of products or raw materials. Changes or uncertainty in U.S. or international trade policies or tariffs could impact our global operations, as well as our customers and suppliers. We may be required to spend more money to source certain products or materials that we need or to manufacture certain of our products. This could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our goodwill may be further impaired, which would require us to record a significant charge to earnings in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.U.S. GAAP requires us to test our goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicators for potential impairment exist. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, we recorded a $1.4 billion impairment to goodwill within our Medical segment. The testing required by GAAP involves estimates and significant judgments by management. Although we believe our assumptions and estimates are reasonable and appropriate, any changes in key assumptions, including a failure to meet business plans or other unanticipated events and circumstances such as a rise in interest rates, may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates. It is possible that we may record significant charges related to other reporting units or we may record additional charges in our Medical segment, which charge or charges could adversely affect our results of operations. See "Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates" in MD&A above for more information regarding goodwill impairment testing. Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K36Properties and Legal Proceedings