RISK FACTORSRisk Factors Related to Our BusinessOur financial results are affected by volatile refining margins, which are dependent upon factors beyond our control. Our financial results are primarily affected by the relationship, or margin, between refined product prices and the prices for crude oil and other feedstocks. Our cost to acquire feedstocks and the price at which we can ultimately sell refined products depend upon several factors beyond our control, including regional and global supply of and demand for crude oil, gasoline, diesel, and other feedstocks and refined products. These in turn depend on, among other things, the availability and quantity of imports, the production levels of U.S. and international suppliers, levels of refined product inventories, productivity and growth (or the lack thereof) of U.S. and global economies, U.S. relationships with foreign governments, political affairs, and the extent of governmental regulation. Historically, refining margins have been volatile, and we believe they will continue to be volatile in the future.Economic turmoil and political unrest or hostilities, including the threat of future terrorist attacks, could affect the economies of the U.S. and other countries. Lower levels of economic activity could result in declines in energy consumption, including declines in the demand for and consumption of our refined products, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects.Refining margins are also significantly impacted by additional refinery conversion capacity through the expansion of existing refineries or the construction of new refineries. Worldwide refining capacity expansions may result in refining production capability exceeding refined product demand, which would have an adverse effect on refining margins.A significant portion of our profitability is derived from the ability to purchase and process crude oil feedstocks that historically have been cheaper than benchmark crude oils, such as Louisiana Light Sweet (LLS) and Brent crude oils. These crude oil feedstock differentials vary significantly depending on overall economic conditions and trends and conditions within the markets for crude oil and refined products, and they could decline in the future, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations.Uncertainty and illiquidity in credit and capital markets can impair our ability to obtain credit and financing on acceptable terms, and can adversely affect the financial strength of our business partners.Our ability to obtain credit and capital depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors that we do not control. Our ability to access credit and capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access those markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, the cost and availability of debt and equity financing may be adversely impacted by unstable or illiquid market conditions. Protracted uncertainty and illiquidity in these markets also could have an adverse impact on our lenders, commodity hedging counterparties, or our customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. In addition, decreased returns on pension fund assets may also materially increase our pension funding requirements.Our access to credit and capital markets also depends on the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent credit rating agencies. We currently maintain investment-grade ratings by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (S&P), Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s), and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) on our senior unsecured debt. (Ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold our securities. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.) We cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings 13Table of Contentswill remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant. Specifically, if S&P, Moody’s, or Fitch were to downgrade our long-term rating, particularly below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase, which could adversely affect our ability to attract potential investors and our funding sources could decrease. In addition, we may not be able to obtain favorable credit terms from our suppliers or they may require us to provide collateral, letters of credit, or other forms of security which would increase our operating costs. As a result, a downgrade below investment grade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity.From time to time, our cash needs may exceed our internally generated cash flow, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we were unable to obtain necessary funds from financing activities. From time to time, we may need to supplement our cash generated from operations with proceeds from financing activities. We have existing revolving credit facilities, committed letter of credit facilities, and an accounts receivable sales facility to provide us with available financing to meet our ongoing cash needs. In addition, we rely on the counterparties to our derivative instruments to fund their obligations under such arrangements. Uncertainty and illiquidity in financial markets may materially impact the ability of the participating financial institutions and other counterparties to fund their commitments to us under our various financing facilities or our derivative instruments, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity.Compliance with and changes in environmental laws, including proposed climate change laws and regulations, could adversely affect our performance. The principal environmental risks associated with our operations are emissions into the air and releases into the soil, surface water, or groundwater. Our operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, pollution prevention measures, greenhouse gas emissions, and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels. Certain of these laws and regulations could impose obligations to conduct assessment or remediation efforts at our facilities as well as at formerly owned properties or third-party sites where we have taken wastes for disposal or where our wastes have migrated. Environmental laws and regulations also may impose liability on us for the conduct of third parties, or for actions that complied with applicable requirements when taken, regardless of negligence or fault. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned. Because environmental laws and regulations are becoming more stringent and new environmental laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed, such as those relating to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, the level of expenditures required for environmental matters could increase in the future. Current and future legislative action and regulatory initiatives could result in changes to operating permits, material changes in operations, increased capital expenditures and operating costs, increased costs of the goods we sell, and decreased demand for our products that cannot be assessed with certainty at this time. We may be required to make expenditures to modify operations or install pollution control equipment that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. For example, in 2012, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposed more stringent requirements for refinery air emissions through revisions to existing New Source Performance Standards and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants. The EPA also issued final amendments to Subpart Ja of the New Source Performance Standards, which included revisions to certain emission limits, monitoring requirements, fuel gas concentration limits, and waste gas flow limits for process heaters and flares. In addition, the EPA has, in recent years, adopted final rules making more stringent the National 14Table of ContentsAmbient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for ozone, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide, and the EPA is considering further revisions to the NAAQS. Emerging rules and permitting requirements implementing these revised standards may require us to install more stringent controls at our facilities, which may result in increased capital expenditures. Governmental restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions – including so-called “cap-and-trade” programs targeted at reducing carbon dioxide emissions – could result in material increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions for our business, and an increase in the cost of, and reduction in demand for, the products we produce, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity.Disruption of our ability to obtain crude oil could adversely affect our operations. A significant portion of our feedstock requirements is satisfied through supplies originating in the Middle East, Africa, Asia, North America, and South America. We are, therefore, subject to the political, geographic, and economic risks attendant to doing business with suppliers located in, and supplies originating from, these areas. If one or more of our supply contracts were terminated, or if political events disrupt our traditional crude oil supply, we believe that adequate alternative supplies of crude oil would be available, but it is possible that we would be unable to find alternative sources of supply. If we are unable to obtain adequate crude oil volumes or are able to obtain such volumes only at unfavorable prices, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected, including reduced sales volumes of refined products or reduced margins as a result of higher crude oil costs.In addition, the U.S. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business in or with other countries. These restrictions, and those of other governments, could limit our ability to gain access to business opportunities in various countries. Actions by both the U.S. and other countries have affected our operations in the past and will continue to do so in the future.We are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products.We often use the services of third parties to transport feedstocks and refined products to and from our facilities. If we experience prolonged interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market, or if the ability of the pipelines or vessels to transport feedstocks or refined products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations, or third-party actions, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity.Competitors that produce their own supply of feedstocks, have more extensive retail sites, have greater financial resources, or provide alternative energy sources may have a competitive advantage. The refining and marketing industry is highly competitive with respect to both feedstock supply and refined product markets. We compete with many companies for available supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks and for sites for our refined products. We do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks and, following the proposed separation of our retail business, will not have a company-owned retail network. Many of our competitors, however, obtain a significant portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and some have extensive retail sites. Such competitors are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. 15Table of ContentsSome of our competitors also have materially greater financial and other resources than we have. Such competitors have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of our industry. In addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial, and individual consumers. A significant interruption in one or more of our refineries or our information technology systems could adversely affect our business. Our refineries are our principal operating assets. As a result, our operations could be subject to significant interruption if one or more of our refineries were to experience a major accident or mechanical failure, encounter work stoppages relating to organized labor issues, be damaged by severe weather or other natural or man-made disaster, such as an act of terrorism, or otherwise be forced to shut down. If any refinery were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the refinery could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance) because of lost production and repair costs. Significant interruptions in our refining system could also lead to increased volatility in prices for crude oil feedstocks and refined products, and could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets, making it more difficult for us to access capital and to obtain insurance coverage that we consider adequate.In addition, our information technology systems and network infrastructure may be subject to unauthorized access or attack, which could result in a loss of sensitive business information, systems interruption, or the disruption of our business operations. There can be no assurance that our infrastructure protection technologies and disaster recovery plans can prevent a technology systems breach or systems failure, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.We are subject to operational risks and our insurance may not be sufficient to cover all potential losses arising from operating hazards. Failure by one or more insurers to honor its coverage commitments for an insured event could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity.Our refining and marketing operations are subject to various hazards common to the industry, including explosions, fires, toxic emissions, maritime hazards, and natural catastrophes. As protection against these hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, such potential losses and liabilities. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase substantially. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, coverage for hurricane damage is very limited, and coverage for terrorism risks includes very broad exclusions. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position.Our insurance program includes a number of insurance carriers. Significant disruptions in financial markets could lead to a deterioration in the financial condition of many financial institutions, including insurance companies. We can make no assurances that we will be able to obtain the full amount of our insurance coverage for insured events.Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance.We are subject to extensive tax liabilities imposed by multiple jurisdictions, including income taxes, indirect taxes (excise/duty, sales/use, gross receipts, and value-added taxes), payroll taxes, franchise taxes, 16Table of Contentswithholding taxes, and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed that could result in increased expenditures for tax liabilities in the future. Many of these liabilities are subject to periodic audits by the respective taxing authority. Subsequent changes to our tax liabilities as a result of these audits may subject us to interest and penalties.We may incur losses as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions.We currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to continue their use in the future. If the instruments we use to hedge our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses.Risk Factors Related to the Planned Separation of our Retail BusinessRisks associated with the separation of CST. Our planned separation of CST is subject to a number of risks, including the following: Risk of Non-Consummation. Although we expect to distribute 80 percent of the shares of CST common stock to Valero stockholders, the distribution remains subject to conditions, including, but not limited to: (i) the SEC having declared effective CST’s registration statement on Form 10; (ii) the receipt of a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to the effect that the distribution, together with certain related transactions, will qualify as a reorganization for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Code); and (iii) the receipt of an opinion from a nationally recognized investment banking firm or other authority confirming the solvency and financial viability of CST after the distribution. There can be no assurance that any or all of these conditions will be met and that the distribution will be completed in the manner currently contemplated, or at all. In addition, the fulfillment of these conditions does not create any obligations on our part to effect the distribution, and our board of directors has reserved the right, in its sole discretion, to abandon, modify, or change the terms of the distribution.Risks of Not Obtaining Benefits from the Separation. We and CST may not realize some or all of the benefits we expect from the separation in the time frame currently contemplated, or at all.Risks Relating to Less Diversification. If the distribution is completed, our diversification of revenue sources will diminish due to the separation of CST from our other businesses, and it is possible that our results of operations, cash flows, working capital and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility as a result. Risks Relating to Taxes. We are seeking a private letter ruling from the IRS substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the distribution of 80 percent of the shares of CST common stock, except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares, will qualify as tax-free under Sections 355 and 361 of the Code, and that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution will qualify for favorable treatment. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings we or CST have made or provided to the IRS is not correct, or that the distribution or the internal transactions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of a significant change in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. If the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, we and/or our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.17Table of ContentsRisks Relating to Post-Separation Share Value. Until the market has fully analyzed the value of our company after the distribution, we may experience more stock price volatility than usual. In addition, it is possible that the combined trading prices of our common stock and CST common stock immediately after the distribution will be less than the trading price of shares of our common stock immediately before the distribution.Our minority investment in CST will be subject to certain risks and uncertainties and we may not be able to capture the full benefits from this investment. After the distribution, we expect to retain 20 percent of the outstanding shares of CST common stock. As with any investment in a publicly traded company, our investment in CST will be subject to certain risks and uncertainties, which are disclosed in more detail in CST’s filings with the SEC. In addition, in connection with the separation, we will agree, and will grant to CST a proxy, to vote all of the shares of CST common stock that we retain in proportion to the votes cast by CST’s other stockholders. As a result, after the distribution, we may be required to vote our shares of CST common stock in a manner that is contrary to the manner we would otherwise have voted such shares.We currently plan to dispose of all of the shares of CST common stock we will retain after the distribution through one or more exchanges for our indebtedness outstanding at the time of such exchange. We expect that pursuant to the private letter ruling we are seeking from the IRS in connection with the distribution, we will be required to dispose of any shares we do not dispose of pursuant to such exchanges as soon as practicable and consistent with our reasons for retaining such shares, but in no event later than five years after the distribution in connection with the separation. As a result, we may be required to sell some or all of our retained shares of CST common stock at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so, and any such disposition in the public market, or the perception that such dispositions could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for CST common stock and/or the value or the terms of such disposition.18Table of ContentsENVIRONMENTAL MATTERSWe incorporate by reference into this Item the environmental disclosures contained in the following sections of this report:•Item 1 under the caption “Risk Factors – Compliance with and changes in environmental laws, including proposed climate change laws and regulations, could adversely affect our performance,”•Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” under the caption “Environmental Enforcement Matters,” and•Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the caption “Environmental Liabilities” and Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the caption “Environmental Matters.”Capital Expenditures Attributable to Compliance with Environmental Regulations. In 2012, our capital expenditures attributable to compliance with environmental regulations were $135 million, and are currently estimated to be $100 million for 2013 and $70 million for 2014. The estimates for 2013 and 2014 do not include amounts related to capital investments at our facilities that management has deemed to be strategic investments. These amounts could materially change as a result of governmental and regulatory actions.PROPERTIESOur principal properties are described above under the caption “Valero’s Operations,” and that information is incorporated herein by reference. We also own feedstock and refined product storage and transportation facilities in various locations. We believe that our properties and facilities are generally adequate for our operations and that our facilities are maintained in a good state of repair. As of December 31, 2012, we were the lessee under a number of cancelable and noncancelable leases for certain properties. Our leases are discussed more fully in Notes 11 and 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Our patents relating to our refining operations are not material to us as a whole. The trademarks and tradenames under which we conduct our retail and branded wholesale business – including Valero®, Diamond Shamrock®, Shamrock®, Ultramar®, Beacon®, Texaco®, Corner Store®, and Stop N Go® – and other trademarks employed in the marketing of petroleum products are integral to our wholesale and retail marketing operations.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS