ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  Our investors should consider the risks set forth in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, that could affect us and our business. These risk factors have not materially changed, except as set forth below. Although we have tried to discuss key factors, our investors need to be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. Investors should carefully consider the discussion of risks and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including “Forward-Looking Statements,” which are included in Part I, Item 2, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  RISK FACTORS INHERENT IN OUR BUSINESS  We are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change.  There is a growing belief that emissions of greenhouse gases may be linked to global climate change. Climate change creates physical and financial risk. Our customers’ energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. For residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, customers’ energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes. Increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in more pipeline and other infrastructure to serve increased demand. A decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition, through decreased revenues. Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. Weather conditions outside of our service territory could also have an impact on our revenues. Severe weather impacts our service territories primarily through hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornadoes and snow or ice storms. To the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could increase our cost of providing service. We may not recover all costs related to mitigating these physical risks. To the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of greenhouse gases as a financial risk, this could negatively affect our ability to access capital markets or cause us to receive less favorable terms and conditions in future financings.  We may be subject to legislative and regulatory responses to climate change, with which compliance could be difficult and costly.  Legislative and regulatory responses related to climate change create financial risk. Increased public awareness and concern may result in more state, regional and/or federal requirements to reduce or mitigate the emission of greenhouse gases. Numerous states have announced or adopted programs to stabilize and reduce greenhouse gases and federal legislation has been introduced in both houses of the United States Congress. Our pipeline and gas processing facilities will potentially to     56    Table of Contents  be subject to regulation under climate change policies introduced at either the state or federal level within the next few years. We may not recover all costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on us. If our regulators do not allow us to recover all or a part of the cost of capital investment or operating and maintenance costs incurred to comply with the mandates, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.      ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS