Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe risk factors set forth below revises and supplements the corresponding risk factor set forth in Part I - Item 1A of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. With the exception of the following, there have been no material changes in the risk factors that appear in Part 1 - Item 1A of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014.Failure to comply with privacy and security laws and regulations could result in fines, penalties and damage to the Company’s reputation with customers and have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business.The federal HIPAA privacy and security regulations, including the expanded requirements under HITECH, establish comprehensive federal standards with respect to the use and disclosure of protected health information by health plans, health care providers, and health care clearinghouses, in addition to setting standards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and security of protected health information. The regulations establish a complex regulatory framework on a variety of subjects, including:•the circumstances under which the use and disclosure of protected health information are permitted or required without a specific authorization by the patient, including but not limited to treatment purposes, activities to obtain payments for the Company’s services, and its health care operations activities;•a patient’s right to access, amend and receive an accounting of certain disclosures of protected health information;•the content of notices of privacy practices for protected health information;•administrative, technical and physical safeguards required of entities that use or receive protected health information; and•the protection of computing systems maintaining PHI.The Company has implemented policies and procedures related to compliance with the HIPAA privacy and security regulations as required by law. The privacy and security regulations establish a “floor” and do not supersede state laws that are more stringent. Therefore, the Company is required to comply with both federal privacy and security regulations and varying state privacy and security laws and regulations. The federal privacy regulations restrict the Company’s ability to use or disclose patient identifiable laboratory data, without patient authorization, for purposes other than payment, treatment or health care operations (as defined by HIPAA), except for disclosures for various public policy purposes and other permitted purposes outlined in the privacy regulations. HIPAA, as amended by HITECH, provides for significant fines and other penalties for wrongful use or disclosure of protected health information in violation of privacy and security regulations, including potential civil and criminal fines and penalties. In addition, other federal and state laws that protect the privacy and security of patient information may be subject to enforcement and interpretations by various governmental authorities and courts resulting in complex compliance issues. For instance, the Company could incur damages under state laws pursuant to an action brought by a private party for the wrongful use or disclosure or confidential health information or other private personal information.In addition, laws and regulations of the European Union, as well as other countries, protect the use and disclosure of personal information. Compliance with these laws and regulations may result in increased costs and failure to comply may result in significant fines, penalties and damage to the Company’s reputation with customers.Continued and increased consolidation of managed care companies, pharmaceutical companies, health systems, physicians and other customers could adversely affect the Company's business.Many healthcare companies and providers, including managed care companies, pharmaceutical companies, health systems and physician practices are consolidating through mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures and other types of transactions and collaborations. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services may become more intense. This competition and increased customer bargaining power may adversely affect the price and volume of the Company’s services.40INDEXChanges or disruption in services or supplies provided by third parties, including transportation, could adversely affect the Company’s business.The Company depends on third parties to provide services critical to the Company’s business. The Company's central laboratories and certain of the Company's other businesses are heavily reliant on air travel for transport of clinical trial and diagnostic testing supplies and specimens, research products, and people, and a significant disruption to the air travel system, or the Company's access to it, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. The Company depends on a limited number of suppliers for certain services and for certain animal populations. Disruptions to the continued supply of these services or products may arise from export/import restrictions or embargoes, foreign political or economic instability, or otherwise. Disruption of supply could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.Damage or disruption to the Company’s facilities could adversely affect the Company’s business.The Company’s preclinical and central laboratory facilities are highly specific and would be difficult to replace in a short period of time. Any event that causes a disruption of the operation of these facilities might impact the Company's ability to provide service to customers and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.The Company bears financial risk for contracts that are underpriced or for which there are cost overruns.The Company, particularly CDD, has many contracts that are structured as fixed price for fixed contracted services or fee-for-service with a cap. The Company bears the financial risk if these contracts are underpriced or if contract costs exceed estimates. Such underpricing or significant cost overruns could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.The Company's quarterly operating results may vary. The Company's operating results, particularly in the CDD segment, may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and are influenced by factors over which the Company has little control such as:•changes in the general global economy;•exchange rate fluctuations;•the commencement, completion, delay or cancellation of large projects or groups of projects;•the progress of ongoing projects;•the timing of and charges associated with completed acquisitions or other events; and•changes in the mix of the Company's services.The Company believes that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results. While fluctuations in the Company's quarterly operating results could negatively or positively affect the market price of the Company's common stock, these fluctuations may not be related to the Company's future overall operating performance.Health care reform and related products (e.g. Health Insurance Exchanges), changes in government payment and reimbursement systems, or changes in payer mix, including an increase in capitated reimbursement mechanisms and evolving delivery models, could have a material adverse impact on the Company's net revenues, profitability and cash flow.Testing services are billed to private patients, Medicare, Medicaid, commercial clients, managed care organizations ("MCOs") and other insurance companies. Tests ordered by a physician may be billed to different payers depending on the medical insurance benefits of a particular patient. Most testing services are billed to a party other than the physician or other authorized person who ordered the test. Increases in the percentage of services billed to government and managed care payers could have an adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues. The various MCOs have different contracting philosophies, which are influenced by the design of the products they offer to their members. Some MCOs contract with a limited number of clinical laboratories and engage in direct negotiation of the rates reimbursed to participating laboratories. Other MCOs adopt broader networks with a generally largely uniform fee structure for participating clinical laboratories. In addition, some MCOs have used capitation in an effort to fix the cost of laboratory testing services for their enrollees. Under a capitated reimbursement mechanism, the clinical laboratory and the managed care organization agree to a per member, per month payment to pay for all authorized laboratory tests ordered during the month by the physician for the members, regardless of the number or cost of the tests actually performed. Capitation shifts the risk of increased test utilization (and the underlying mix of testing services) to the clinical laboratory provider. The Company makes significant efforts to ensure that its services are adequately compensated in its capitated arrangements. For the year ended December 31, 2014, such capitated contracts accounted for approximately $211.1 million, or 3.7%, of the Company's net sales.41INDEXThe Company's ability to attract and retain managed care clients is critical given the impact of health care reform, related products and expanded coverage (e.g. Health Insurance Exchanges and Medicaid Expansion) and evolving delivery models (e.g. Accountable Care Organizations).A portion of the managed care fee-for-service revenues are collectible from patients in the form of deductibles, copayments and coinsurance. As patient cost-sharing increases, collectibility may be impacted. In addition, Medicare and Medicaid and private insurers have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of health care services, including clinical laboratory services. Measures to regulate health care delivery in general, and clinical laboratories in particular, have resulted in reduced prices, added costs and decreased test utilization for the clinical laboratory industry by increasing complexity and adding new regulatory and administrative requirements. Pursuant to legislation passed in late 2003, the percentage of Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in Medicare managed care plans has increased. The percentage of Medicaid beneficiaries enrolled in Medicaid managed care plans has also increased, and is expected to continue to increase. Implementation of the ACA, the health care reform legislation passed in 2010, also may affect coverage, reimbursement, and utilization of laboratory services, as well as administrative requirements.The Company expects efforts to impose reduced reimbursement, more stringent payment policies and utilization and cost controls by government and other payers to continue. If the Company cannot offset additional reductions in the payments it receives for its services by reducing costs, increasing test volume and/or introducing new procedures, it could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues, profitability and cash flows. In 2014, Congress passed the Protecting Access to Medicare Act (PAMA), requiring Medicare to change the way payment rates are calculated for tests paid under the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule (CLFS), and to base the payment on the weighted median of rates paid by private payers. On October 1, 2015, CMS published a proposed rule to implement PAMA. This rule proposes to require applicable laboratories, including the Company’s labs, to begin reporting their test-specific private payer payment amounts to CMS during the first quarter of 2016, which CMS would then use to calculate new CLFS rates that would be effective in 2017. ACLA and the lab community will provide extensive comments on the proposed rule and work with CMS to try to ensure the final regulation accurately reflects the statutory language on applicable labs, and results in a reimbursement framework that reflects the broad scope of the laboratory market, encourages innovation, and maintains access to laboratory services for Medicare beneficiaries. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of the proposed rule. As an employer, health care reform legislation also contains numerous regulations that will require the Company to implement significant process and record keeping changes to be in compliance. These changes increase the cost of providing health care coverage to employees and their families. Given the limited release of regulations to guide compliance, the exact impact to employers including the Company is uncertain.In addition, implementation of health care reform legislation that contains costs could limit the profits that can be made from the development of new drugs. This could adversely affect research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, which could in turn decrease the business opportunities available to CDD both in the United States and abroad. New laws or regulations may create a risk of liability, increase CDD costs or limit service offerings through CDD.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds