Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe risk factors set forth below revise and supplement the corresponding risk factors set forth in Part I - Item 1A of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, as amended. With the exception of the following, there have been no material changes in the risk factors that appear in Part I - Item 1A of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, as amended.Healthcare reform and related products (e.g., Health Insurance Exchanges), changes in government payment and reimbursement systems, or changes in payer mix, including an increase in capitated reimbursement mechanisms and evolving delivery models, could have an adverse impact on the Company's net revenues, profitability and cash flow.LCD's testing services are billed to private patients, Medicare, Medicaid, commercial clients, MCOs and other insurance companies. Tests ordered by a physician may be billed to different payers depending on the medical insurance benefits of a particular patient. Most testing services are billed to a party other than the physician or other authorized person who ordered the test. Increases in the percentage of services billed to government and MCOs could have an adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues.The various MCOs have different contracting philosophies, which are influenced by the design of the products they offer to their members. Some MCOs contract with a limited number of clinical laboratories and engage in direct negotiation of the rates reimbursed to participating laboratories. Other MCOs adopt broader networks with a largely uniform fee structure for participating clinical laboratories; in some cases, those fee structures are specific to independent clinical laboratories while the fees paid to hospital-based and physician-office laboratories may be different, and are typically higher. In addition, some MCOs have used capitation in an effort to fix the cost of laboratory testing services for their enrollees. Under a capitated reimbursement arrangement, the MCO makes a per member, per month payment for all covered laboratory tests rendered during the month for the members, regardless of the number or cost of the tests actually performed. Capitation shifts the risk of increased test utilization (and the underlying mix of testing services) to the clinical laboratory provider. The Company makes significant efforts to ensure that its services are adequately compensated in its capitated arrangements. For the year ended December 31, 2015, such capitated contracts accounted for approximately $219.9 million, or 2.6%, of the Company's net revenues.The Company's ability to attract and retain MCOs is critical given the impact of healthcare reform, related products and expanded coverage (e.g., Health Insurance Exchanges and Medicaid Expansion) and evolving delivery models (e.g., ACOs).A portion of the managed care fee-for-service revenues are collectible from patients in the form of deductibles, copayments and coinsurance. Collectibility may be impacted as patient cost-sharing increases. In addition, Medicare and Medicaid and private insurers have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services, including clinical laboratory services. Measures to regulate healthcare delivery in general, and clinical laboratories in particular, have resulted in reduced prices, added costs and decreased test utilization for the clinical laboratory industry by increasing complexity and adding new regulatory and administrative requirements. Pursuant to legislation passed in late 2003, the percentage of Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in Managed Medicare plans has increased. The percentage of Medicaid beneficiaries enrolled in Managed Medicaid plans has also increased, and is expected to continue to increase. Implementation of the ACA, the healthcare reform legislation passed in 2010, also may continue to affect coverage, reimbursement, and utilization of laboratory services, as well as administrative requirements.The Company also experienced delays in the pricing and implementation of new molecular pathology codes among various payers, including Medicaid, Medicare and commercial carriers. While some delays were expected, several non-commercial payers required an extended period of time to price key molecular codes and a number of those payers, mostly government entities, indicated that they would no longer pay for tests that they had previously covered. Many commercial payers were delayed in becoming aware of the impact of their claim edits and policies, which impeded access to services that previously had been covered and reimbursed. These delays had a negative impact on 2014 revenue, revenue per requisition, margins and cash flows, which were largely sustained throughout 2015. Further, several payers continue to require additional information to process claims or have implemented prior authorization or other restrictive policies which are expected to have a continuing negative impact. Similarly, coding and billing changes related to toxicology and other Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule (CLFS) procedures were 36INDEXimplemented in 2015 and 2016. The Company experienced delays in the pricing and implementation of the new codes, however, it largely overcame issues related to price and margins through direct negotiation with the associated payers. The Company expects efforts to impose reduced reimbursement, more stringent payment policies and utilization and cost controls by government and other payers to continue. If LCD cannot offset additional reductions in the payments it receives for its services by reducing costs, increasing test volume and/or introducing new procedures, it could adversely impact the Company’s net revenues, profitability and cash flows.In 2014, Congress passed the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (PAMA), requiring Medicare to change the way payment rates are calculated for tests paid under the CLFS, and to base the payment on the weighted median of rates paid by private payers. On June 23, 2016, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) published a final rule implementing PAMA, which required establishment of a new Medicare reimbursement system for clinical lab tests paid under the CLFS, based on private payer rates, as reported to CMS. Although the new payment system was supposed to go into effect for tests furnished after January 1, 2017, the CMS rulemaking process was delayed, and the new rates will not be effective until January 1, 2018 pursuant to the final rule. Under the new system the Company must collect data on private payer rates and report the data to CMS every three years for most types of tests. The Company does not expect that the new reporting requirements will have a material impact on its business or results of operations. CMS will use the data reported by all applicable labs to calculate a weighted median of private payer rates for each test performed, and that weighted median will be the new Medicare rate. Rate reductions for existing tests under the new system will be phased in over six years. The Company is still assessing the full impact of the final rule, but has been preparing for it for some time. Medicare reimbursement under the CLFS represents less than 10% of the Company’s consolidated revenue.As an employer, healthcare reform legislation also contains numerous regulations that will require the Company to implement significant process and record keeping changes to be in compliance. These changes increase the cost of providing healthcare coverage to employees and their families. Given the limited release of regulations to guide compliance, the exact impact to employers including the Company is uncertain.In addition, implementation of healthcare reform legislation that adds costs could limit the profits that can be made from the development of new drugs. This could adversely affect R&D expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, which could in turn decrease the business opportunities available to CDD both in the U.S. and other countries. New laws or regulations may create a risk of liability, increase CDD costs or limit service offerings through CDD.Global economic conditions and regulatory changes leading up to and following the United Kingdom’s announced intention to exit from the European Union could adversely impact the Company’s business and results of operations located in, or closely associated with, the United Kingdom.In June 2016, a majority of voters in the United Kingdom elected to withdraw from the European Union (often referred to as Brexit) in a national referendum. The referendum was advisory, and the terms of any withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years after the government of the United Kingdom formally initiates a withdrawal process. This will be either accompanied or followed by negotiations between the European Union and the United Kingdom concerning the future relations between the parties. Nevertheless, the referendum has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union. This includes uncertainty with respect to the laws and regulations, including regulations applicable to the Company’s business, that will apply in the United Kingdom in the event of a withdrawal. The referendum has also given rise to calls for the governments of other European Union member states to consider a referendum on withdrawal from the European Union for their territory. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, could adversely impact global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. Any of these factors could depress economic activity, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations especially those located in, or closely associated with, the United Kingdom. Brexit could lead to long-term volatility in the currency markets and there could be long-term detrimental effects on the value of either the Euro and/or the British Pound and could impact other currencies. The Company uses foreign currency derivative instruments to hedge certain exposures to currency exchange rate risks. The results of the Brexit referendum could increase the Company’s exposure to foreign currency rate exchange risks and reduce its ability to effectively use certain derivative instruments as a way to hedge risks.The Company has operations in the United Kingdom that serve customers in both the United Kingdom and elsewhere, and these operations could be adversely affected by Brexit. However, until the Brexit negotiation process is initiated, it is difficult to anticipate how the clinical trial landscape in the United Kingdom will change in the next several years. 37INDEXItem 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds