Item 1A. Risk Factors    We face a variety of risk factors that are substantial and inherent in our business, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risks. The following are some of the more important factors that could affect our business.   Our financial results depend on equity market returns and the investment performance of our Affiliates.   The investment management contracts of our Affiliates typically provide for payment based on the market value of assets under management, and payments will be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets. In addition, certain of our Affiliates' investment management contracts include fees  9      Table of Contents  based on investment performance relative to a specified benchmark and, as such, are directly dependent upon investment results which may vary substantially from year to year. Unfavorable market performance and volatility in the capital markets or in the prices of specific securities may reduce our Affiliates' assets under management, which in turn may adversely affect the fees payable to our Affiliates and, ultimately, our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.   The capital markets have recently been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility. The decline in global market conditions has resulted, and may continue to result in, decreases in the level of our Affiliates' assets under management due, in large part, to the significant declines in the value of securities, as well as a global decrease in assets invested in the equity markets. Since our assets under management are principally concentrated in equity products, our results are particularly susceptible to downturns in the equity markets.   Our growth strategy depends upon continued growth from our existing Affiliates or upon our making new investments in boutique investment management firms.   Our Affiliates may not be able to maintain their respective levels of performance or contribute to our growth at their historical levels or at currently anticipated levels. Also, our Affiliates may be unable to carry out their management succession plans, which may adversely affect their operations and revenue streams.   The success of our investment program will depend upon our ability to find suitable firms in which to invest, our ability to negotiate agreements with such firms on acceptable terms, our ability to issue common stock to raise capital and our ability to access additional forms of capital necessary to finance such transactions. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in finding or investing in such firms or that they will have favorable operating results following our investment, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   Our financial results could be adversely affected by the performance of other financial institutions.   We and our Affiliates routinely execute transactions with various counterparties in the financial services industry. The recent decline in market conditions has highlighted the interconnection of the global markets and demonstrated how the deteriorating financial condition of one institution may materially and adversely impact the performance of other institutions. We and our Affiliates may be exposed to such risk in the event that a counterparty with whom we transact defaults on its obligations, or other unrelated systemic failures in the markets.   Historically, equity markets and our common stock have been volatile.   The market price of our common stock historically has experienced and may continue to experience volatility, and the broader equity markets have experienced and may again experience significant price and volume fluctuations. In recent months, the declines in the equity markets have reached unprecedented levels. These declines have affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and has, and may continue to, adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, our announcements of our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us, our Affiliates or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially.   Our Affiliates' businesses are highly regulated.   Many aspects of our Affiliates' businesses are subject to extensive regulation by various U.S. federal regulatory authorities, certain state regulatory authorities and non-U.S. regulatory authorities. We cannot ensure that our Affiliates will fulfill all applicable regulatory requirements. If we or any of our Affiliates were to be named as a subject of an investigation or other regulatory action, the public announcement and potential publicity surrounding any such investigation or action could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and financial condition even if we (or our Affiliates) were  10      Table of Contents  found not to have committed any violation of the securities laws or other misconduct. The failure of any Affiliate to satisfy regulatory requirements could subject that Affiliate to sanctions that might materially impact the Affiliate's business and our business. Changes in laws or regulatory requirements, or the interpretation or application of such laws and regulatory requirements by regulatory authorities, could occur without notice and have a material adverse impact on our profitability and mode of operations. Recent global financial developments have produced calls for more stringent regulation of the financial services industry in which we and our Affiliates operate, which may make it more likely that changes will occur which could adversely affect our business, our access to capital and the market for our common stock.   Our international operations are subject to foreign risks, including political, regulatory, economic and currency risks.   We and some of our Affiliates operate offices or advise clients outside of the United States, and several affiliated investment management firms are based outside the United States. Accordingly, we and our current and any prospective affiliated investment management firms that have foreign operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business internationally, in addition to the risks our business faces more generally. These risks may include changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer payment cycles, difficulties in collecting investment advisory fees receivable, different, and in some cases, less stringent legal, regulatory and accounting regimes, political instability, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, expatriation controls, expropriation risks and potential adverse tax consequences. These or other foreign risks may have an adverse effect both on our Affiliates and on our consolidated business, financial condition and results of operations.   Our Affiliates' autonomy limits our ability to alter their management practices and policies, and we may be held responsible for liabilities incurred by them.   Although our agreements with our Affiliates typically give us the authority to control and/or vote with respect to certain of their business activities, we generally are not directly involved in managing our Affiliates' day-to-day activities, including investment management policies and procedures, fee levels, marketing and product development, client relationships, employment and compensation programs and compliance activities. As a consequence, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by problems stemming from the day-to-day operations of our Affiliates.   Some of our Affiliates are partnerships or limited liability companies of which we are, or an entity controlled by us is, the general partner or manager member. Consequently, to the extent that any of these Affiliates incur liabilities or expenses that exceed its ability to pay for them, we may be directly or indirectly liable for their payment. In addition, with respect to each of our Affiliates, we may be held liable in some circumstances as a control person for the acts of the Affiliate or its employees. While we and our Affiliates maintain errors and omissions and general liability insurance in amounts believed to be adequate to cover certain potential liabilities, we cannot be certain that we will not have claims that exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, that the insurers will remain solvent and will meet their obligations to provide coverage or that insurance coverage will continue to be available to us and our Affiliates with sufficient limits and at a reasonable cost. A judgment against any of our Affiliates and/or us in excess of available insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on the Affiliate and/or us.   The failure to receive regular distributions from our Affiliates would adversely affect us, and our structure results in substantial structural subordination that may affect our ability to make payments on our obligations.   We receive cash distributions from our Affiliates. An Affiliate's payment of distributions to us may be subject to claims by the Affiliate's creditors and to limitations applicable to the Affiliate under federal and state laws, including securities and bankruptcy laws, and any applicable non-U.S. laws.  11      Table of Contents  Additionally, an Affiliate may default on some or all of the distributions that are payable to us. As a result, we cannot guarantee that we will always receive these distributions from our Affiliates. The failure to receive the distributions to which we are entitled under our agreements with our Affiliates would adversely affect us, and may affect our ability to make payments on our obligations.   Our right to receive any assets of our Affiliates or subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization, and thus the right of the holders of securities issued by us to participate in those assets, typically would be subordinated to the claims of that entity's creditors. In addition, even if we were a creditor of any of our Affiliates or subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest and indebtedness that is senior to us.   The agreed-upon expense allocation under our revenue sharing arrangements with our Affiliates may not be large enough to pay for all of the respective Affiliate's operating expenses.   Our Affiliates have generally entered into agreements with us under which they have agreed to pay us a specified percentage of their respective gross revenue, while retaining a percentage of revenue for use in paying that Affiliate's operating expenses. We may not anticipate and reflect in those agreements possible changes in the revenue and expense base of any Affiliate, and the agreed-upon expense allocation may not be large enough to pay for all of an Affiliate's operating expenses. We may elect to defer the receipt of our share of an Affiliate's revenue to permit the Affiliate to fund such operating expenses, or we may restructure our relationship with an Affiliate with the aim of maximizing the long-term benefits to us, but we cannot be certain that any such deferral or restructured relationship would be of any greater benefit to us. Such a deferral or restructured relationship might have an adverse effect on our near-term or long-term profitability and financial condition.   The sale or issue of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely impact the price of our common stock.   The sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely impact its price. In connection with our financing activities, we issued securities and entered into contracts that may result in the issuance of our common stock upon the occurrence of certain events. As of December 31 2008, approximately 9.9 million shares remain issuable under the terms of our convertible securities and our forward sale agreement. Moreover, in connection with future financing activities, we may issue additional convertible securities or shares of our common stock. Consequently, any such issuance of shares of our common stock could have the effect of substantially diluting the interests of our current equity holders. In the event that a large number of shares of our common stock are sold in the public market, the price of our common stock may fall.   The failure to consummate announced investments in new investment management firms could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.   Consummation of our acquisition transactions is generally subject to a number of closing conditions, contingencies and approvals, including but not limited to obtaining certain consents of the investment management firms' clients. In the event that an announced transaction is not consummated, we may experience a decline in the price of our common stock to the extent that the then-current market price reflects a market assumption that we will complete the announced transaction. In addition, the fact that a transaction did not close after we announced it publicly may negatively affect our ability and prospects to consummate transactions in the future. Finally, we must pay costs related to these transactions, including legal and accounting fees, even if the transactions are not completed, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   We expect that we will need to raise additional capital in the future, and existing or future resources may not be available to us in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms.   While we believe that our existing cash resources and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for normal operations for the foreseeable future, our continuing  12      Table of Contents  acquisitions of interests in new affiliated investment management firms will require additional capital. We may also need to repurchase some or all of our outstanding zero coupon senior convertible notes or our 3.95% convertible senior notes. We are contingently liable to make additional purchase payments upon the achievement of specified financial targets in connection with certain of our prior acquisitions and we have obligations to purchase additional equity in existing Affiliates, which obligations may be triggered from time to time. These obligations may require more cash than is then available from operations. Thus, we may need to raise capital by making additional borrowings or by selling shares of our common stock or other equity or debt securities, or to otherwise refinance a portion of these obligations. These financing activities could increase our interest expense, decrease our net income and dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain such financing on acceptable terms, if at all.   Our access to additional capital, and the cost of capital we are able to access, also depends significantly on our credit rating. A reduction in our credit rating could increase our borrowing costs and may limit our access to the capital markets.   Repurchase Obligations under Zero Coupon Senior Convertible Notes. In May 2001, we issued $251 million aggregate principal amount at maturity of zero coupon senior convertible notes due 2021. As of December 31, 2008, $50.1 million principal amount at maturity of zero coupon convertible notes remains outstanding. In May 2011 and 2016, the remaining holders may require us to repurchase all or a portion of the outstanding zero coupon senior convertible notes at their accreted value.   Cash Payment Obligation under our 3.95% Convertible Senior Notes. We currently have outstanding $460 million aggregate principal amount of 3.95% convertible senior notes due 2038. Every five years, commencing on August 15, 2013, the holders may require us to repurchase all or a portion of the outstanding 3.95% convertible senior notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest.   Senior Credit Facility. In November 2007, we entered into an amended and restated credit facility. During the third quarter of 2008, we increased our borrowing capacity to $1.01 billion, comprised of a $770 million revolving credit facility and a $240 million term loan. We have used our credit facility in the past, and we may do so again in the future, to fund investments in new and existing Affiliates, refinance other indebtedness, repurchase stock and fund working capital. As of December 31, 2008, we had $233.5 million outstanding under our credit facility.   Our credit facility will mature in February 2012. While we intend to obtain a new credit facility prior to that time, we may not be able to obtain financing on terms comparable to our current credit facility. Our failure to do so could increase our interest expense, decrease our net income and adversely affect our ability to fund new investments and otherwise use our credit facility as described above. We may borrow under our credit facility only if we continue to meet certain financial tests, including the leverage and interest ratios described below. In addition, our credit facility contains provisions for the benefit of our lenders that restrict the manner in which we can conduct our business, that may adversely affect our ability to make investments in new and existing Affiliates and that may have an adverse impact on the interests of our stockholders. Because indebtedness under our credit facility bears interest at variable rates, in the event we have indebtedness outstanding under our credit facility, increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense, which could adversely affect our cash flow, our ability to meet our debt service obligations and our ability to fund future investments. Although from time to time we are party to interest rate hedging contracts designed to offset a portion of our exposure to interest rate fluctuations, we cannot be certain that this strategy will be effective.   Under the terms of our credit facility we are required to meet two financial ratio covenants. The first of these covenants is a maximum ratio of debt to EBITDA of 3.5x. The calculation of our bank leverage ratio is generally consistent with our internal leverage ratio approach as described on page 30. The second covenant is a minimum EBITDA to cash interest expense ratio of 3.0x. For the purposes of calculating these ratios, share-based compensation expense is added back to EBITDA.  13      Table of Contents  As of December 31, 2008, we were in full compliance with the terms of our credit facility. While continued material declines in the equity markets could negatively impact our EBITDA and, in turn, our ability to comply with our covenants, our holding company cash resources are sufficient to repay the balance outstanding under our credit facility.   Contingent Purchase Payments. In connection with our investments in certain of our Affiliates, we are contingently liable, upon achievement of specified financial targets, to make additional purchase payments of up to $232 million through 2012.   Purchase of Additional Equity in Our Affiliates. Many of our agreements provide Affiliate managers a conditional right that enables them to require us to purchase additional ownership interests in our Affiliates in certain circumstances and from time to time. We may pay for these purchases in cash, shares of our common stock or other forms of consideration. In connection with these purchases, we may face the financing risks described above, including our ability to access capital.   We have substantial intangibles on our balance sheet, and any impairment of our intangibles could adversely affect our results of operations.   At December 31, 2008, our total assets were approximately $3.2 billion, of which approximately $1.7 billion were intangible assets, and approximately $0.7 billion were equity investments in Affiliates, an amount comprised primarily of intangible assets. We cannot be certain that we will ever realize the value of such intangible assets. Acquired client relationships with definite lives are being amortized, or written off, over a weighted average period of 10 years. An impairment of our intangible assets or an other than temporary decline in the value of our equity investments could adversely affect our results of operations. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we recognized a non-cash charge of $150.0 million to reduce the carrying value of certain equity method Affiliates to fair value.   We and our Affiliates rely on certain key personnel and cannot guarantee their continued service.   We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and our other officers and employees. Our executive officers, in particular, play an important role in the stability and growth of our existing Affiliates and in identifying potential investment opportunities for us. We do not have employment agreements with our officers, although each of them has a significant equity interest, including stock options.   In addition, our Affiliates depend heavily on the services of key principals, who in many cases have managed their firms for many years. These principals often are primarily responsible for their firm's investment decisions. Although we use a combination of economic incentives, transfer restrictions and, in some instances, non-solicitation agreements and employment agreements in an effort to retain key management personnel, there is no guarantee that these principals will remain with their firms. Moreover, since certain Affiliates contribute significantly to our revenue, the loss of key management personnel at these Affiliates could have a disproportionate adverse impact on our business.   The loss of key management personnel or an inability to attract, retain and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified management personnel may adversely affect our business and our Affiliates' businesses. The market for investment managers is extremely competitive and is increasingly characterized by the frequent movement of investment managers among different firms. In addition, since individual investment managers at our Affiliates often maintain a strong, personal relationship with their clients that is based on their clients' trust in the manager, the departure of a manager could cause the Affiliate to lose client accounts, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of both the Affiliate and us.   Our Affiliates' investment management contracts are subject to termination on short notice.   Our Affiliates derive almost all of their revenue from their clients based upon their investment management contracts with those clients. These contracts are typically terminable by the client without penalty upon relatively short notice (typically not longer than 60 days). We cannot be certain that our  14      Table of Contents  Affiliates will be able to retain their existing clients or to attract new clients. If our Affiliates' clients withdraw a substantial amount of funds, it is likely to harm our results.   Our industry is highly competitive.   Through our Affiliates, we compete with a broad range of investment managers, including public and private investment advisors, firms associated with securities broker-dealers, financial institutions, insurance companies, private equity firms, sovereign wealth funds and other entities that serve our three principal distribution channels, many of whom have greater resources. This competition may reduce the fees that our Affiliates can obtain for their services. We believe that our Affiliates' ability to compete effectively with other firms in our three distribution channels depends upon our Affiliates' products, investment performance and client-servicing capabilities, and the marketing and distribution of their investment products. Our Affiliates may not compare favorably with their competitors in any or all of these categories. From time to time, our Affiliates also compete with each other for clients.   The market for acquisitions of interests in investment management firms is highly competitive. Many other public and private financial services companies, including commercial and investment banks, insurance companies and investment management firms, which may have significantly greater resources than we do, also invest in or buy investment management firms. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively with such companies, that new competitors will not enter the market or that such competition will not make it more difficult or not feasible for us to make new investments in investment management firms.       Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments