Item 1A. Risk Factors    We face a variety of risk factors that are substantial and inherent in our business, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risks. The following are some of the more important factors that could affect our business.   Our financial results depend on equity market returns and the investment performance of our Affiliates.   The investment management contracts of our Affiliates typically provide for payment based on the market value of assets under management, and payments will be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets. In addition, certain of our Affiliates' investment management contracts include fees based on investment performance relative to a specified benchmark and, as such, are directly dependent upon investment results which may vary substantially from year to year. Unfavorable market performance and volatility in the capital markets or in the prices of specific securities may reduce our Affiliates' assets under management, which in turn may adversely affect the fees payable to our Affiliates and, ultimately, our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.   A decline in global market conditions may result in decreases in the level of our Affiliates' assets under management due, in large part, to the significant declines in the value of securities, as well as a global decrease in assets invested in the equity markets. Since our assets under management are principally concentrated in equity products, our results are particularly susceptible to downturns in the equity markets.   Our growth strategy depends upon continued growth from our existing Affiliates or upon our making new investments in boutique investment management firms.   Our Affiliates may not be able to maintain their respective levels of performance or contribute to our growth at their historical levels or at currently anticipated levels. Also, our Affiliates may be unable to carry out their management succession plans, which may adversely affect their operations and revenue streams.   The success of our investment program will depend upon our ability to find suitable firms in which to invest, our ability to negotiate agreements with such firms on acceptable terms, our ability to issue common stock to raise capital and our ability to access additional forms of capital necessary to finance such transactions. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in finding or investing in such firms or that they will have favorable operating results following our investment, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   Our financial results could be adversely affected by the performance of other financial institutions.   We and our Affiliates routinely execute transactions with various counterparties in the financial services industry. Recent volatility in markets has highlighted the interconnection of the global markets and demonstrated how the deteriorating financial condition of one institution may materially and adversely impact the performance of other institutions. We and our Affiliates may be exposed to such risk in the event that a counterparty with whom we transact defaults on its obligations, or other unrelated systemic failures in the markets.   Historically, equity markets and our common stock have been volatile.   The market price of our common stock historically has experienced and may continue to experience volatility, and the broader equity markets have experienced and may again experience significant price and volume fluctuations. In addition, our announcements of our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments  10      Table of Contents  affecting us, our Affiliates or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially.   Our Affiliates' businesses are highly regulated.   Our Affiliates' businesses are subject to extensive regulation by various U.S. federal regulatory authorities, certain state regulatory authorities and non-U.S. regulatory authorities. We cannot ensure that our Affiliates will fulfill all applicable regulatory requirements. If we or any of our Affiliates were to be named as a subject of an investigation or other regulatory action, the public announcement and potential publicity surrounding any such investigation or action could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and financial condition even if we (or our Affiliates) were found not to have committed any violation of the securities laws or other misconduct. The failure of any Affiliate to satisfy regulatory requirements could subject that Affiliate to sanctions that might materially impact the Affiliate's business and our business. Changes in laws or regulatory requirements, or the interpretation or application of such laws and regulatory requirements by regulatory authorities, could occur without notice and have a material adverse impact on our profitability and mode of operations. Recent proposals in the United States and the European Union have called for more stringent regulation and additional taxation of the financial services industry in which we and our Affiliates operate, which may make it more likely that changes will occur which could adversely affect our business, our access to capital and the market for our common stock.   Our international operations are subject to foreign risks, including political, regulatory, economic and currency risks.   We and some of our Affiliates operate offices or advise clients outside of the United States, and several affiliated investment management firms are based outside the United States. Accordingly, we and our current and any prospective affiliated investment management firms that have foreign operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business internationally, in addition to the risks our business faces more generally. These risks may include changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer payment cycles, difficulties in collecting investment advisory fees receivable, different, and in some cases, less stringent legal, regulatory and accounting regimes, political instability, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, expatriation controls, expropriation risks and potential adverse tax consequences. These or other foreign risks may have an adverse effect both on our Affiliates and on our consolidated business, financial condition and results of operations.   Our Affiliates' autonomy limits our ability to alter their management practices and policies, and we may be held responsible for liabilities incurred by them.   Although our agreements with our Affiliates typically give us the authority to control and/or vote with respect to certain of their business activities, we generally are not directly involved in managing our Affiliates' day-to-day activities, including investment management policies and procedures, fee levels, marketing and product development, client relationships, employment and compensation programs and compliance activities. As a consequence, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by problems stemming from the day-to-day operations of our Affiliates.   Some of our Affiliates are partnerships or limited liability companies of which we are, or an entity controlled by us is, the general partner or manager member. Consequently, to the extent that any of these Affiliates incur liabilities or expenses that exceed its ability to pay for them, we may be directly or indirectly liable for their payment. In addition, with respect to each of our Affiliates, we may be held liable in some circumstances as a control person for the acts of the Affiliate or its employees. While we and our Affiliates maintain errors and omissions and general liability insurance in amounts believed to be adequate to cover certain potential liabilities, we cannot be certain that we will not have claims that  11      Table of Contents  exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, that the insurers will remain solvent and will meet their obligations to provide coverage or that insurance coverage will continue to be available to us and our Affiliates with sufficient limits and at a reasonable cost. A judgment against any of our Affiliates and/or us in excess of available insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on the Affiliate and/or us.   The failure to receive regular distributions from our Affiliates would adversely affect us, and our structure results in substantial structural subordination that may affect our ability to make payments on our obligations.   We receive cash distributions from our Affiliates. An Affiliate's payment of distributions to us may be subject to claims by the Affiliate's creditors and to limitations applicable to the Affiliate under federal and state laws, including securities and bankruptcy laws, and any applicable non-U.S. laws. Additionally, an Affiliate may default on some or all of the distributions that are payable to us. As a result, we cannot guarantee that we will always receive these distributions from our Affiliates. The failure to receive the distributions to which we are entitled under our agreements with our Affiliates would adversely affect us, and may affect our ability to make payments on our obligations.   Our right to receive any assets of our Affiliates or subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization, and thus the right of the holders of securities issued by us to participate in those assets, typically would be subordinated to the claims of that entity's creditors. In addition, even if we were a creditor of any of our Affiliates or subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest and indebtedness that is senior to us.   The agreed-upon expense allocation under our revenue sharing arrangements with our Affiliates may not be large enough to pay for all of the respective Affiliate's operating expenses.   Our Affiliates have generally entered into agreements with us under which they have agreed to pay us a specified percentage of their respective gross revenue, while retaining a percentage of revenue for use in paying that Affiliate's operating expenses. We may not anticipate and reflect in those agreements possible changes in the revenue and expense base of any Affiliate, and the agreed-upon expense allocation may not be large enough to pay for all of an Affiliate's operating expenses. We may elect to defer the receipt of our share of an Affiliate's revenue to permit the Affiliate to fund such operating expenses, or we may restructure our relationship with an Affiliate with the aim of maximizing the long-term benefits to us, but we cannot be certain that any such deferral or restructured relationship would be of any greater benefit to us. Such a deferral or restructured relationship might have an adverse effect on our near-term or long-term profitability and financial condition.   The sale or issue of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely impact the price of our common stock.   The sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely impact its price. In connection with our financing activities, we issued securities and entered into contracts that may result in the issuance of our common stock upon the occurrence of certain events. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 14.8 million shares remain issuable under the terms of our convertible securities and our forward sale agreements. Moreover, in connection with future financing activities, we may issue additional convertible securities or shares of our common stock. Consequently, any such issuance of shares of our common stock could have the effect of substantially diluting the interests of our current equity holders. In the event that a large number of shares of our common stock are sold in the public market, the price of our common stock may fall.  12      Table of Contents   The failure to consummate announced investments in new investment management firms could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.   Consummation of our acquisition transactions is generally subject to a number of closing conditions, contingencies and approvals, including but not limited to obtaining certain consents of the investment management firms' clients. In the event that an announced transaction is not consummated, we may experience a decline in the price of our common stock to the extent that the then-current market price reflects a market assumption that we will complete the announced transaction. In addition, the fact that a transaction did not close after we announced it publicly may negatively affect our ability and prospects to consummate transactions in the future. Finally, we must pay costs related to these transactions, including legal and accounting fees, even if the transactions are not completed, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   We expect that we will need to raise additional capital in the future, and existing or future resources may not be available to us in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms.   While we believe that our existing cash resources and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for normal operations for the foreseeable future, our continuing acquisitions of interests in new affiliated investment management firms may require additional capital. We have announced three pending investments which are expected to close in the second quarter of 2010 and will likely require additional borrowings under our credit facility. We may also need to repurchase some or all of our outstanding zero coupon senior convertible notes or our 3.95% convertible senior notes. We are contingently liable to make additional purchase payments upon the achievement of specified financial targets in connection with certain of our prior acquisitions and we have obligations to purchase additional equity in existing Affiliates, which obligations may be triggered from time to time. These obligations may require more cash than is then available from operations. Thus, we may need to raise capital by making additional borrowings or by selling shares of our common stock or other equity or debt securities, or to otherwise refinance a portion of these obligations. As of December 31, 2009, we are in compliance with the terms of our credit facility, which matures in February 2012.   In connection with our pending investments, our level of indebtedness is expected to increase as we anticipate funding these acquisitions primarily through borrowings under our credit facility. This additional indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and will require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness.   The financing activities described above could increase our interest expense, decrease our net income and dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. In addition, our access to further capital, and the cost of capital we are able to access, is influenced by our credit rating. A reduction in our credit rating could increase our borrowing costs and may limit our access to the capital markets.   We have substantial intangibles on our balance sheet, and any impairment of our intangibles could adversely affect our results of operations.   At December 31, 2009, our total assets were approximately $3.4 billion, of which approximately $2.0 billion were intangible assets, and approximately $0.7 billion were equity investments in Affiliates, an amount comprised primarily of intangible assets. We cannot be certain that we will ever realize the value of such intangible assets. An impairment of our intangible assets or an other than temporary decline in the value of our equity investments could adversely affect our results of operations.  13      Table of Contents   We and our Affiliates rely on certain key personnel and cannot guarantee their continued service.   We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and our other officers and employees. Our executive officers, in particular, play an important role in the stability and growth of our existing Affiliates and in identifying potential investment opportunities for us. We do not have employment agreements with our officers, although each of them has a significant equity interest, including stock options.   In addition, our Affiliates depend heavily on the services of key principals, who in many cases have managed their firms for many years. These principals often are primarily responsible for their firm's investment decisions. Although we use a combination of economic incentives, transfer restrictions and, in some instances, non-solicitation agreements and employment agreements in an effort to retain key management personnel, there is no guarantee that these principals will remain with their firms. Moreover, since certain Affiliates contribute significantly to our revenue, the loss of key management personnel at these Affiliates could have a disproportionate adverse impact on our business.   Our Affiliates' investment management contracts are subject to termination on short notice.   Our Affiliates derive almost all of their revenue from their clients based upon their investment management contracts with those clients. These contracts are typically terminable by the client without penalty upon relatively short notice (typically not longer than 60 days) and may not be assignable without consent. In addition, investment management contracts with mutual funds are subject to annual approval by the fund's board of directors. We cannot be certain that our Affiliates will be able to retain their existing clients or to attract new clients. If our Affiliates' clients withdraw a substantial amount of funds, it is likely to harm our results.   Our industry is highly competitive.   Through our Affiliates, we compete with a broad range of investment managers, including public and private investment advisors, firms associated with securities broker-dealers, financial institutions, insurance companies, private equity firms, sovereign wealth funds and other entities that serve our three principal distribution channels, many of whom have greater resources. This competition may reduce the fees that our Affiliates can obtain for their services. We believe that our Affiliates' ability to compete effectively with other firms in our three distribution channels depends upon our Affiliates' products, investment performance and client-servicing capabilities, and the marketing and distribution of their investment products. Our Affiliates may not compare favorably with their competitors in any or all of these categories. From time to time, our Affiliates also compete with each other for clients.   The market for acquisitions of interests in investment management firms is highly competitive. Many other public and private financial services companies, including commercial and investment banks, insurance companies and investment management firms, which may have significantly greater resources than we do, also invest in or buy investment management firms. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively with such companies, that new competitors will not enter the market or that such competition will not make it more difficult or not feasible for us to make new investments in investment management firms.       Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments