Item 1A. Risk Factors.”These factors (among others) could affect our financial performance and cause actual results to differ materially from historical earnings and those presently anticipated and projected. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we will not undertake and we specifically disclaim any obligation to release publicly the result of any revisions which may be made to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of events, whether or not anticipated. In that respect, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.Item 1.BusinessWe are a global asset management company with equity investments in leading boutique investment management firms, which we refer to as our “Affiliates.” Our innovative partnership approach allows each Affiliate’s management team to own significant equity in their firm and maintain operational autonomy. Our strategy is to generate shareholder value through the internal growth of existing Affiliates, as well as through investments in new Affiliates, and additional investments in existing Affiliates. In addition, we provide centralized assistance to our Affiliates in strategic matters, marketing, distribution, product development and operations. As of December 31, 2016, our aggregate assets under management were $688.7 billion (approximately $727 billion pro forma for investments which have since closed or are accounted for on a lag basis) in over 550 investment products across a broad range of active return-oriented strategies and distribution channels.We hold meaningful equity interests in each of our Affiliates. In certain cases, we own a majority of the equity interests while in other cases we own a minority of the equity interests. In all cases, Affiliate management retains a significant equity interest in their own firm. Affiliate management equity ownership (along with our long-term ownership) aligns our interests, enhances Affiliate management equity incentives and preserves the opportunity for Affiliate management to participate directly in the long-term future growth of their firms. Our innovative partnership approach provides Affiliate management with a degree of liquidity and financial diversification and ensures that our Affiliates maintain investment and operational autonomy in managing their businesses, as well as their unique entrepreneurial culture and independence. Given our long-term partnership approach, when we own a majority of the equity interests in an Affiliate, we address the ongoing succession planning issues facing the Affiliate’s principal owners as they transition incentives to future generations by facilitating the transfer of equity over time to the next generation of Affiliate management. When we own a minority of the equity interests in an Affiliate, we typically do not have an obligation to repurchase Affiliate equity interests, but may make additional investments to further facilitate Affiliate ownership transition. Although we invest in boutique investment management firms that we anticipate will grow independently, given our partnership approach, we enhance our Affiliates’ growth prospects by providing access to the resources and scale of a global asset management company.We are focused on investing globally in investment management firms that manage active return-oriented strategies, including traditional, alternative and wealth management firms. We identify high-quality boutique firms based on our thorough understanding of the asset management industry, and we have developed long-term relationships with a significant number of these firms. Within our target universe, we seek strong and stable boutiques that offer active return-oriented strategies, such as alternative strategies and global equity strategies. These boutiques are typically characterized by a strong multi-generational management team, entrepreneurial culture and commitment to building longer-term success. We anticipate that we will have significant additional investment opportunities across the global asset management industry, most often in independent investment management firms, but also investments resulting from subsidiary divestitures, secondary sales and other special situations. We are well-positioned to execute upon these investment opportunities through our established process of identifying and cultivating investment prospects, our broad industry relationships and our substantial 1Table of Contentsexperience and expertise in structuring and negotiating transactions. We have a strong, global reputation as an outstanding partner to our existing Affiliates, and are widely recognized in the marketplace as providing an innovative solution for the succession and strategic needs of boutique investment management firms.Investment Management OperationsThrough our Affiliates, we provide a comprehensive and diverse range of active return-oriented strategies and products to assist institutional, retail and high net worth clients worldwide in achieving their investment objectives. As of December 31, 2016, we managed $688.7 billion (approximately $727 billion pro forma for investments which have since closed or are accounted for on a lag basis) in predominantly alternative strategies and global equity strategies. Our Affiliates’ generally do not manage passive indexing strategies, exchange traded funds, fixed income or money market products, which typically carry lower fee rates than active return-oriented strategies. Our Affiliates’ investment services and products are distributed by sales and marketing professionals developing new business through direct sales efforts and established relationships with consultants and intermediaries around the world. Our global distribution platform operates in key markets to extend the reach of our Affiliates’ own business development efforts and provide the necessary resources and expertise to ensure that our Affiliates’ products and services are responsive to the evolving demands of the global marketplace. We have offices in Sydney, serving investors in Australia and New Zealand; London, serving investors in the UK and continental Europe; Zurich, serving investors in Switzerland; Dubai, serving investors in the Middle East; and Hong Kong, serving investors in Asia. In addition, we have retail distribution platforms through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, AMG Funds, LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut and AMG Funds PLC in Dublin, Ireland, which provide retail investors with access to our Affiliates’ investment services through registered investment companies and a family of UCITS funds. Our Affiliates currently manage active return-oriented strategies in over 550 investment products, including for non-U.S. clients in more than 50 countries.Our Innovative Structure and Relationship with AffiliatesWe establish and maintain long-term partnerships with the management equity owners of our Affiliates, believing that Affiliate management equity ownership (along with our long-term ownership) aligns our interests, enhances Affiliate management equity incentives and preserves management’s incentive to continue to grow their businesses. Our innovative partnership approach allows for Affiliate management to retain equity sufficient to address their particular needs and ensures that our Affiliates maintain investment and operational autonomy in managing their businesses, as well as their unique entrepreneurial culture and independence. Although the equity structure of each investment is tailored to meet the needs of the particular Affiliate, in all cases, we maintain a meaningful equity interest in the firm, with a significant equity interest retained by Affiliate management.Each of our Affiliates operates through distinct entities, typically organized as limited liability companies or limited partnerships (or equivalent non-U.S. forms), which affords us the flexibility to design a separate operating agreement for each Affiliate that reflects our arrangements with respect to governance, economic participation, equity incentives and the other terms of our relationship. In each case, the operating agreement provides for a governance structure that gives Affiliate management the authority to manage and operate the business on a day-to-day basis. The operating agreement also reflects the specific terms of our economic participation in the Affiliate, which in each case uses a “structured partnership interest” to ensure alignment of our economic interests with those of Affiliate management. When we own a majority of the equity interests in an Affiliate, we primarily use structured partnership interests in which we share in the Affiliate’s revenue without regard to expenses. For these Affiliate investments, a set percentage of revenue is allocated to fund operating expenses, including compensation (the “Operating Allocation”), while the remaining revenue (the “Owners’ Allocation”) is allocated to us and Affiliate management in proportion to our respective ownership interests. See Exhibit 1. We and Affiliate management therefore participate in any increase or decrease in revenue through the Owners’ Allocation, and Affiliate management also participates in any increase or decrease in margin through the Operating Allocation.2Table of ContentsExhibit 1 (Typical Structured Partnership Interest)When we own a minority of the equity interests in an Affiliate, our structured partnership interest is either calculated by reference to the Affiliate’s revenue without regard to expenses or by reference to the Affiliate’s revenue less certain agreed-upon expenses. When our structured partnership interest is calculated by reference to an Affiliate’s revenue less certain agreed-upon expenses, we participate in increases and decreases both in revenue and the agreed-upon expenses included in the calculation. This structure allows us to benefit from any increase in revenue or any decrease in the expenses that are included in the calculation, but also directly exposes us to any decrease in revenue or any increase in such expenses, which we may not anticipate and which could be significant.In structured partnership interests in which we share in an Affiliate’s revenue without regard to expenses, our contractual share of revenue generally has priority over distributions to Affiliate management.When we own a majority of the equity interests in an Affiliate, we consolidate the Affiliate’s financial results in our Revenue, Operating expenses and Other non-operating (income) and expenses. When we own a minority interest, we generally use the equity method of accounting and our share of the Affiliate’s financial results is reported (net of intangible amortization) in Income from equity method investments. Whether we consolidate an Affiliate’s financial results or use the equity method of accounting, we maintain the same partnership approach and provide support and assistance in substantially the same manner for all Affiliates. From time to time, we may change the structure of our arrangements with an Affiliate in order to better support the Affiliate’s growth strategy.CompetitionOur Affiliates compete with a large number of other domestic and foreign investment management firms, as well as with subsidiaries of larger financial organizations. These firms may have significantly greater financial, technological and marketing resources, captive distribution and assets under management and many offer an even broader array of investment products and services. Certain Affiliates are active in the same distribution channels and, from time to time, may compete with each other for clients. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry for new investment management firms, especially in the Institutional distribution channel. We believe that the most important factors affecting our Affiliates’ ability to compete for clients in our three principal distribution channels are the:•investment performance track records, investment style, discipline and reputation of our Affiliates and their management teams;•depth and continuity of client relationships;•diversity of products and level of client service offered;3Table of Contents•changes in investor preferences, such as the recent growth in passively managed products including index and exchange traded funds;•maintenance of strong business relationships with major intermediaries;•continued development, either organically or through new investments, of investment strategies to meet the changing needs and risk tolerances of investors; and•continued success of our global distribution platform.The relative importance of each of these factors can vary depending on the distribution channel and the type of investment management service involved, as well as general market conditions. An Affiliate’s ability to retain and increase assets under management would be adversely affected if client accounts underperform in comparison to relevant benchmarks or peer groups, or if key personnel leave an Affiliate. The ability to compete with other investment management firms also depends, in part, on the relative attractiveness of an Affiliate’s active return-oriented investment strategies, market trends, fees or a combination of these factors. We compete with a number of acquirers of and investors in investment management firms, including other investment management companies, private equity firms, sovereign wealth funds and larger financial organizations. We believe that the most important factors affecting our ability to compete for future investments are the:•degree to which target firms view our investment model, equity incentive structures and access to economies of scale as preferable (financially, operationally or otherwise) to acquisition or investment arrangements offered by others; and•reputation and performance of our Affiliates, by which target firms may judge us and our future prospects.Government RegulationOur and our Affiliates’ businesses are subject to complex and extensive regulation by various regulatory authorities and exchanges in jurisdictions around the world, including those summarized below. These regulations may change from time to time, including as a result of global financial regulatory reform initiatives. Our or our Affiliates’ businesses may be subject to regulatory inquiries by regulatory authorities, and these regulatory authorities may also conduct examinations or inspections of our operations or those of our Affiliates with or without notice. Any determination of a failure to comply with laws or regulations could result in disciplinary or enforcement action, fines, suspensions, or revocation or limitation of business activities or registration. See “Risk Factors.” AMG Funds is an adviser registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (Advisers Act), and sponsors approximately 70 U.S. mutual funds registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (Investment Company Act) that are managed by Affiliates and unrelated investment managers. A number of our Affiliates also serve as advisers to mutual funds sponsored by them or by third parties. The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers, including fiduciary duties, recordkeeping requirements, operational requirements and compliance and disclosure obligations. The Investment Company Act imposes additional obligations on fund advisers, including investment restrictions and other governance, compliance, reporting and fiduciary obligations relating to the management of mutual funds. New rules adopted by the SEC in 2016 may create additional reporting requirements for advisers and funds, and additional requirements for mutual funds in the areas of liquidity management. Outside of the U.S., Affiliated Managers Group Limited (AMG Limited) is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK, and is authorized as a promoter in Ireland by the Central Bank of Ireland. AMG Limited serves as the promoter for our Irish UCITS platform, which sponsors UCITS funds managed by Affiliates and marketed by AMG Limited in the UK and Europe. AMG Limited’s branch, AMG Limited (Dubai), is regulated as a representative office by the Dubai Financial Services Authority. Affiliated Managers Group (Hong Kong) Limited is regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong, and Affiliated Managers Group Pty Ltd is regulated by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission in Australia. Our ability to transact business in these countries, and to conduct cross border activities, is subject to the availability of regulatory authorization. Our Affiliates’ investment management operations are also subject to regulation by U.S. and non-U.S. authorities and exchanges. The majority of our Affiliates are registered as investment advisers under the Advisers Act, and many of our Affiliates are also subject to non-U.S. regulatory oversight. We have Affiliates domiciled in a number of jurisdictions, and these Affiliates are subject to regulation under the laws and regulations of and supervision by governmental authorities in each 4Table of Contentsof these jurisdictions. Our Affiliates also offer their products and services in many countries around the world, and are subject to various requirements relating to such activities. Many of our Affiliates sponsor registered and unregistered funds in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, including Guernsey, Jersey, Ireland, Luxembourg, the British Virgin Islands and the Cayman Islands, and are subject to regulatory requirements in those jurisdictions and in the jurisdictions where those funds may be offered. Our Affiliates invest in publicly-traded securities of issuers across the globe and are subject to requirements in numerous jurisdictions for reporting of beneficial ownership positions and other requirements. Virtually all aspects of the asset management business, including strategy and product-related sales and distribution activities, are subject to regulation. These laws, rules and regulations are primarily intended to protect the clients of asset managers, and generally grant supervisory agencies and regulatory bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to set minimum capital requirements and to impose fines or limit or restrict an investment adviser from conducting its business in the event of a failure to comply with such laws and regulations. We and our Affiliates are also subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), and related regulations, with respect to their retirement plan clients. ERISA imposes duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, and prohibits certain transactions involving related parties to a retirement plan. The Department of Labor administers ERISA and regulates investment advisers who service retirement plan clients, and has been increasingly active in proposing and adopting additional regulations applicable to the asset management industry. Rulemaking by the Department of Labor in 2016 extends the application of the fiduciary duty to brokers and other intermediaries in the context of retirement advice. We and certain of our Affiliates are also members of the National Futures Association and regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) with respect to the management of mutual funds and other products that utilize futures, swaps or other derivative products. In addition, we and certain of our Affiliates are registered broker-dealers and members of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), for the purpose of distributing funds or other asset management products. These broker-dealers are subject to net capital rules that mandate that they maintain certain levels of capital. FINRA has adopted extensive regulatory requirements relating to sales practices, registration of personnel, compliance and supervision, and compensation and disclosure. FINRA and the SEC conduct periodic examinations of member broker-dealers. The SEC, FINRA and state securities commissions may also conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or registered employees. We and our Affiliates may also be subject to regulatory capital requirements, including those of federal, state and non-U.S. regulatory agencies.Due to the extensive laws and regulations to which we and our Affiliates are subject, we must devote substantial time, expense and effort to remaining current on, and addressing, legal and regulatory compliance matters. We and our Affiliates have experienced legal teams and compliance professionals in place to address the legal, regulatory and compliance requirements relating to our global operations, and have in place relationships with various legal and regulatory advisors in each of the countries where we and our Affiliates have business interests. We have established compliance programs for each of our operating subsidiaries, and each of our Affiliates has established a compliance program to address regulatory compliance requirements for its operations, and provides ongoing reporting to us on compliance matters. Employees and Corporate OrganizationAs of December 31, 2016, we had approximately 4,100 employees, the substantial majority of whom were employed full-time by our Affiliates. Neither we nor our Affiliates are subject to any collective bargaining agreements, and we believe that our and our Affiliates’ labor relations are good. We were formed in 1993 as a corporation under the laws of the State of Delaware.Our Web SiteOur web site is www.amg.com. Our web site provides information about us, and from time to time we may use it as a distribution channel of material company information. We routinely post financial and other important information regarding the Company in the “Investor Relations” section of our web site and we encourage investors to consult that section regularly. That section of our web site includes a link to another web site where one can obtain, free of charge, copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, including exhibits, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished with the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We make these reports available through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after our electronic filing of such materials with, or the furnishing of them to, the SEC. The information contained or incorporated on our web site is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.5Table of ContentsItem 1A.Risk Factors We and our Affiliates face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including those related to markets, liquidity, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risks. The following are some of the more important factors that could affect our and our Affiliates’ businesses. Certain statements in “Risk Factors” are forward-looking statements. See “Forward-Looking Statements.”Our financial results depend on the receipt of asset based and performance fees by our Affiliates, and are impacted by changes in our total assets under management as well as the relative levels of assets under management among our Affiliates.Our financial results depend on the receipt of investment management fees by our Affiliates. Asset based fees are primarily based on a percentage of the value of assets under management, and vary with the nature of the account or product managed. In certain instances, our Affiliates are paid fees based on investment performance on an absolute basis or relative to a benchmark and, as such, are directly dependent upon investment results that may vary substantially from year to year. The total level of our assets under management generally or with particular Affiliates could be adversely affected by conditions outside of our control, including: •a decline in market value of such assets, including due to exchange rate fluctuations, or declines in the capital markets and in the equity markets in particular; •changes in investor risk tolerance or investment preferences such as the recent growth in passively managed products including index and exchange traded funds, which could result in investor allocations away from active return-oriented strategies offered by our Affiliates; •our Affiliates’ ability to maintain existing advisory relationships and fee structures; •our or our Affiliates’ ability to market products and services, which may be impacted by volatility in the capital markets or in the prices of securities;•the ability to market products and services available through AMG Funds;•unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, or the yield curve;•global economic conditions, exacerbated by changes in the equity or debt marketplaces;•financial crises, political or diplomatic developments, war, terrorism or natural disasters; and•other factors that are difficult to predict.A reduction in our assets under management would adversely affect the fees payable to our Affiliates and, ultimately, our results of operations and financial condition. Further, our structured partnership interests are tailored to meet the needs of each Affiliate and are therefore varied, and our revenue and profitability may be adversely affected by changes in the relative performance and the relative levels of assets under management among our Affiliates, independent of overall effective fee rates and our total level of assets under management. Additionally, certain Affiliates contribute significantly to our earnings and, therefore, changes in the assets under management at such Affiliates for any of the above reasons could have a disproportionate adverse impact on our earnings. Our growth strategy depends upon the continued growth of our existing Affiliates and upon making investments in new boutique investment management firms or additional investments in existing Affiliates.Our Affiliates may not maintain their respective levels of performance or contribute to our growth at their historical or currently anticipated levels. Also, our Affiliates may be unable to carry out their management succession plans, which may adversely affect their operations and revenue streams and thus our results of operations.Our continued success in investing in boutique investment management firms will depend upon our ability to find suitable firms in which to invest or make additional investments in existing Affiliates, our ability to negotiate agreements with such firms on acceptable terms and our ability to raise the capital necessary to finance such transactions. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in making investments in such firms or that they will have favorable operating results following our investment, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Historically, equity markets and our common stock have been volatile.The market price of our common stock has experienced and may continue to experience volatility, and the broader equity markets have experienced and may again experience significant price and volume fluctuations. In addition, our announcements 6Table of Contentsof our quarterly financial and operating results, including changes in net client cash flows and assets under management, changes in our financial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us, our Affiliates or our competitors, as well as geopolitical, regulatory, economic, and business factors unrelated to us, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially.If our reputation is harmed, we could suffer losses in our business and financial results.Our business depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of our Affiliates and our stockholders. Our reputation is critical to our business and is vulnerable to threats that may be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. For example, failure to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, errors in our public reports or litigation against us or any of our Affiliates, or the publicity surrounding these events, even if satisfactorily addressed, could adversely impact our reputation, our relationships with our Affiliates and our ability to negotiate agreements with new investment management firms, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.  Our and our Affiliates’ businesses are highly regulated.Our and our Affiliates’ businesses are subject to complex and extensive regulation by various regulatory and self-regulatory authorities and exchanges in jurisdictions around the world, as detailed in “Government Regulation” in Item 1. This regulatory environment may be altered without notice by new laws or regulations, revisions to existing laws or regulations or new or revised interpretations, guidance or enforcement priorities. These laws and regulations impose requirements, restrictions and limitations on our and our Affiliates’ businesses, and compliance with these laws and regulations results in significant cost and expense. Any determination of a failure to comply with laws or regulations could result in disciplinary or enforcement action with penalties that may include the disgorgement of fees, fines, suspensions or censure of individual employees or revocation or limitation of business activities or registration. Further, if we or any of our Affiliates were to fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations or be named as a subject of an investigation or other regulatory action, the public announcement and potential publicity surrounding any such investigation or action could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and result in increased costs even if we or our Affiliates were found not to have violated such laws, rules or regulations. The failure to satisfy regulatory requirements could subject us or our Affiliates to civil liability, criminal liability or sanctions that might materially impact our or our Affiliates’ businesses. Further, some of these laws and regulations limit the types of activities in which we or our Affiliates may engage, and any failure to manage our respective businesses to ensure compliance with applicable regulations and to avoid becoming subject to additional regulations could have a material adverse effect on our and our Affiliates’ businesses. As investment advisers, our Affiliates and AMG Funds are subject to numerous obligations, fiduciary duties and other regulatory requirements, where non-compliance could result in censure or termination of adviser status, litigation or reputational harm, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and results of operations.  In the U.S., the new presidential administration may significantly alter current regulation, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which may create uncertainty, or change the requirements applicable to our and our Affiliates’ businesses. Rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act continues to drive regulation in our industry for the time being, with new rules imposing additional restrictions and limitations on our and our Affiliates’ businesses. Rulemaking proposed by the SEC has created additional reporting requirements for advisers and funds, and additional requirements for mutual funds in the areas of liquidity management. For example, if the new administration proceeds with the derivatives rule proposal, and that rule is adopted as proposed, it could negatively impact our Affiliates’ ability to manage certain products. Further, rulemaking by the Department of Labor in 2016 extends the application of fiduciary duty standards under ERISA to brokers and other intermediaries in the context of retirement advice. If the Department of Labor proceeds with implementation of the new fiduciary rule, that rule may impact the way retirement products are sold and could negatively impact the distribution of Affiliate products into that channel.Changes in laws or regulatory requirements, or the interpretation or application of such laws and regulatory requirements by regulatory authorities, may occur with short or no notice, and could have a material adverse impact on our and our Affiliates’ financial results and mode of operations. Globally, proposals have called for more stringent regulation of the financial services industry in which we and our Affiliates operate, which may make it more likely that changes will occur that could adversely affect our and our Affiliates’ businesses, increase compliance costs, require that we or our Affiliates curtail operations or investment offerings, or impact our access to capital and the market for our common stock. Regulators continue to consider whether asset managers or funds, or certain asset management products or activities, should be designated as systemically important, and therefore subject to additional regulation. In the UK and Europe, our and our Affiliates’ businesses may be impacted by financial services reform initiatives enacted or under consideration in the European Union, and by the UK’s vote on the referendum to exit the European Union, which could impact our or our Affiliates’ ability to conduct operations pursuant to a European passport. These new laws and regulations may also result in increased compliance costs and expenses, and non-compliance may result in fines and penalties.7Table of ContentsOur and our Affiliates’ international operations are subject to foreign risks, including political, regulatory, economic and currency risks.We and certain of our Affiliates operate offices or advise clients outside the U.S., and several Affiliates are based outside the U.S. Accordingly, we and certain of our Affiliates are subject to risks inherent in doing business internationally, in addition to the risks our businesses face more generally. These risks may include changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer payment cycles, difficulties in collecting investment advisory fees receivable, different (and in some cases less stringent) legal, regulatory and accounting regimes, political instability, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, expatriation controls, expropriation risks and potential adverse tax consequences. In the UK, for example, our and our Affiliates’ businesses may be impacted by the UK’s vote on the referendum to exit the European Union. In addition, we and certain of our Affiliates are required to maintain minimum levels of capital, and such capital requirements may be increased from time to time, which may have the effect of limiting withdrawals of capital, repayment of intercompany loans and payment of distributions to us by these Affiliates. These or other risks related to our and our Affiliates’ non-U.S. operations may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Failure to comply with the applicable laws, rules, regulations, codes, directives, notices or guidelines in any jurisdiction outside of the U.S. could result in a wide range of penalties and disciplinary actions, including fines, censures and the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses, any of which could adversely affect our or our Affiliates’ reputations and operations. Regulators in jurisdictions outside of the U.S. could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede the ability to offer our Affiliates’ investment products and services in their respective markets, or we or our Affiliates may be unable to keep up with, or adapt to, the ever-changing, complex regulatory requirements in such jurisdictions or markets, which could further negatively impact our business.Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income-based taxes in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations and administrative practices in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, and significant judgment is required in estimating and evaluating our tax provision and accruals. Our effective tax rates could be affected by a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes to our existing business and changes in relevant tax, accounting or other laws, regulations, administrative practices and interpretations. We are subject to ongoing tax examinations by various tax authorities and may be subject to future tax examinations. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these examinations in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and may assess additional taxes and/or penalties and interest. There can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these examinations and the actual outcomes could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.Future changes in U.S. or foreign tax laws, including those with retroactive effect, could materially impact our effective tax rate, overall tax expense and cash flow. The U.S. Congress and other government agencies in jurisdictions in which we do business have maintained a focus on the taxation of multinational companies. Proposals for fundamental U.S. corporate tax reform call for significant changes to the taxation of corporate profits and foreign earnings. If enacted, the proposed reforms could materially affect the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, the future deductibility of our interest expense and intangible assets, and the rates at which our foreign earnings would be taxed in the U.S. While the prospects for U.S. tax reform are uncertain, the current proposals being considered could have a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations.Our Affiliates’ autonomy limits our ability to alter their management practices and policies, and we may be held responsible for liabilities incurred by certain of them.Although our agreements with Affiliates typically give us the authority to control and/or vote with respect to certain of their business activities, we generally are not directly involved in managing our Affiliates’ day-to-day activities, including investment management policies and procedures, fee levels, marketing, product development, client relationships, employment and compensation programs and compliance activities. As a consequence, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by problems stemming from the day-to-day operations of our Affiliates, where weaknesses or failures in internal processes or systems, legal or regulatory matters, or other operational challenges could lead to a disruption of our Affiliates’ operations, liability to their clients, exposure to claims or disciplinary action or reputational harm.Some of our Affiliates are limited liability companies or limited partnerships (or equivalent non-U.S. forms) of which we, or entities controlled by us, are the general partner or managing member. Consequently, to the extent that any of these Affiliates 8Table of Contentsincur liabilities or expenses that exceed their ability to pay for them, we may be directly or indirectly liable for their payment. Similarly, an Affiliate’s payment of distributions to us may be subject to claims by potential creditors, and an Affiliate may default on distributions that are payable to us. In addition, with respect to each of these Affiliates, we may be held liable in some circumstances as a control person for the acts of the Affiliate or its employees. Our Affiliates also may face various claims, litigation or complaints from time to time and we cannot predict the eventual outcome of such matters, some of which may be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us or our Affiliates, or whether any matters could become material to a particular Affiliate or us in any reporting period. While we and our Affiliates maintain errors and omissions and general liability insurance in amounts believed to be adequate to cover certain potential liabilities, we cannot be certain that we will not have claims that exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, that the insurers will remain solvent and will meet their obligations to provide coverage or that insurance coverage will continue to be available to us and our Affiliates with sufficient limits and at a reasonable cost. A judgment in excess of available insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The agreed-upon expense allocation under our structured partnership interests in which we share in the Affiliate’s revenue without regard to expenses may not be large enough to pay for all of the respective Affiliate’s operating expenses.In our typical structured partnership interests, the Affiliate allocates a specified percentage of Owners’ Allocation to us, while using the remainder of Owners’ Allocation along with the Operating Allocation for operating expenses and for distributions to Affiliate management. Our structured partnership interests, and these agreed allocations, may not anticipate changes in the revenue and operating expense base of the Affiliate, and the revenue remaining after our Owners’ Allocation may not be large enough to cover all of the Affiliate’s operating expenses. While our distributions generally have priority, we may elect to defer or forgo the receipt of our share of the Affiliate’s revenue to permit the Affiliate to fund such operating expenses, with the aim of maximizing the long-term benefits. We cannot be certain that any such deferral or forbearance would be of any greater benefit to us, and such a deferral or forbearance may have an adverse effect on our near- or long-term financial condition and results of operations. Further, unanticipated changes in revenue, operating expenses or other commitments could leave the Affiliate with a shortfall in remaining funds for distribution to us or to Affiliate management, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition generally and on our results of operations for the applicable reporting period. When our structured partnership interest is calculated by reference to the Affiliate’s revenue less certain agreed-upon expenses, we have direct exposure to fluctuations in revenue and operating expenses.In the case of our structured partnership interests that are calculated by reference to an Affiliate’s revenue less certain agreed-upon expenses, we are allocated a set percentage of the Affiliate’s revenue less certain agreed-upon expenses, thereby participating in any increases or decreases in both revenue and the expenses that are included in the calculation. This structure allows us to benefit from any increase in revenue or any decrease in the expenses that are included in the calculation, but also directly exposes us to any decrease in revenue or any increase in such expenses, which we may not anticipate and which could be significant. Further, the impact of such decreases and increases in revenue or expenses at these Affiliates on our earnings and our stock price could increase if the portion of our earnings derived from such Affiliates increases.We may restructure our relationships with Affiliates, and cannot be certain that any such restructurings will benefit us in the near- or long-term.From time to time we may restructure our relationships with our Affiliates, which could, among other things, include changes to our structured partnership interests, including the calculation of our share of revenue and/or operating expenses. Such restructurings may be done in order to address an Affiliate’s succession planning, changes in their operating expense base, strategic planning or other developments. Any restructuring of our interest in an Affiliate may result in additional investments from us or a reduction of our interest in the Affiliate, and could impact our share of the Affiliate’s revenue and/or operating expenses. Any such restructurings could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.Our industry is highly competitive.Our Affiliates compete with a broad range of domestic and foreign investment management firms, including public, private and client-owned investment advisors, firms managing passive strategies as well other firms managing active return-oriented strategies, firms associated with securities broker-dealers, financial institutions, insurance companies, private equity firms, sovereign wealth funds and other entities that serve our three principal distribution channels. This competition may reduce the fees that our Affiliates can obtain for investment management services. We believe that our Affiliates’ ability to compete effectively with other firms depends upon our Affiliates’ strategies, investment performance, reputations, and client-servicing capabilities, and the marketing and distribution of their investment strategies, among other factors. See “Competition” in Item 1. Our Affiliates may not compare favorably with their competitors in any or all of these categories. From time to time, our 9Table of ContentsAffiliates may also compete with each other for clients. Further, our Affiliates’ ability to compete with other investment management firms also depends, in part, on the relative attractiveness of their investment strategies, market trends, fees or a combination of these factors. Our Affiliates represent a diverse group of boutique investment management firms with predominantly active return-oriented strategies, rather than indexing strategies, exchange traded funds, fixed income or money market products, which typically carry lower fee rates. Changes in investor risk tolerance or investment preferences, such as recent growth in passively managed products including index and exchange traded funds, could result in investor allocation away from active return-oriented strategies.The market for acquisitions of interests in boutique investment management firms is highly competitive. Many other public and private financial services companies, including commercial and investment banks, private equity firms, sovereign wealth funds, insurance companies and investment management firms, which may have significantly greater resources than we do, also invest in or buy boutique investment management firms. Further, our innovative partnership approach with our Affiliates is designed to provide enhanced incentives for management owners while enabling us to protect our interests, including through structured partnership interests and long-term employment agreements with key members of the firm. Target investment management firms may prefer investments in their firms under terms and structures offered by our competitors. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively with such companies, that new competitors will not enter the market or that such competition will not make it more difficult or not feasible for us to maintain existing investments or to make new investments in boutique investment management firms.The failure to consummate announced investments in new investment management firms could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Consummation of our announced investments is generally subject to a number of closing conditions, contingencies and approvals, including but not limited to obtaining certain consents of the investment management firms’ clients and applicable regulatory approvals. In the event that an announced transaction is not consummated, we may experience a decline in the price of our common stock to the extent that the then-current market price reflects a market assumption that we will complete the announced transaction. In addition, the fact that a transaction did not close after we announced it publicly may negatively affect our ability and prospects to consummate transactions in the future. Finally, we must pay costs related to these investments, including transaction fees, even if the investments are not completed, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We expect that we will need to raise additional capital in the future, and existing or future resources may not be available to us in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms.While we believe that our existing cash resources and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for normal operations for the foreseeable future, our continuing acquisitions of interests in new boutique investment management firms and additional investments in existing Affiliates may require additional capital. Further, we are contingently liable to make additional purchase payments (of up to $396.9 million through 2019) upon the achievement of specified financial targets in connection with certain of our prior acquisitions. As of December 31, 2016, we expected to make payments of $10.3 million ($3.0 million in 2017) to settle such obligations. We also have committed to co-invest in certain investment partnerships, which commitments may be called in future periods. Subject to certain limitations, majority-owned Affiliate equity interests generally provide holders the conditional right to put equity interests to us over time. Because these obligations are conditional and dependent upon the individual equity holder’s decision to sell his or her equity, it is difficult to predict the frequency and magnitude of these repurchases (our Redeemable non-controlling interests balance at December 31, 2016 was $673.5 million). We may also call all or a portion of these equity interests upon, among other events, the termination of an equity holder’s employment, although these rights may be limited or suspended in certain circumstances. These obligations may require more cash than is then available from operations. Thus, we may need to raise capital by making additional borrowings or by selling shares of our common stock or other equity or debt securities, or to otherwise refinance a portion of these obligations.As of December 31, 2016, we had outstanding total debt of $2.3 billion. Our level of indebtedness may increase if we fund one or more future acquisitions through borrowings under our credit facilities. This additional indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and would require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness.The financing activities described above could increase our interest expense, decrease our net income (controlling interest) or dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. In addition, our access to further capital, and the cost of capital we are able to access, is influenced by a number of factors, including the state of global credit and equity markets, interest rates, credit spreads and our credit ratings. We are rated A3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB+ with a positive outlook by S&P Global Ratings. The rating agencies could decide to modify their outlook or downgrade our ratings or the entire investment 10Table of Contentsmanagement industry, thereby making it difficult to access capital markets. In addition, a reduction in our credit rating could increase our borrowing costs.Our debt agreements impose certain covenants relating to the conduct of our business, including financial covenants under our credit facilities, and, if amounts borrowed or outstanding under these agreements were subject to accelerated repayment, we may not have sufficient assets or liquidity to repay such amounts in full.Our credit facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios, including a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio, and also contain customary affirmative operating covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, place certain limitations on our and our subsidiaries’ ability to incur debt, merge or transfer assets and on our ability to create liens. The indentures governing our senior notes also contain restrictions on our ability to merge or transfer assets and on our ability to create liens. The breach of any covenant (either due to our actions or, in the case of financial covenants, due to a significant and prolonged market driven decline in our operating results) could result in a default under the applicable debt agreement. In the event of any such default, lenders that are party to the credit facilities could refuse to make further extensions of credit to us. Further, in the event of certain defaults, amounts borrowed under the credit facilities and/or outstanding under the senior notes, together with accrued interest and other fees, could become immediately due and payable. If any indebtedness under the credit facilities or the indentures governing the senior notes was subject to accelerated repayment, we may not have sufficient liquid assets to repay such indebtedness in full.We have substantial intangibles on our balance sheet, and any impairment of our intangibles could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.At December 31, 2016, our total assets were $8.7 billion, of which $4.1 billion were intangible assets, and $3.4 billion were equity method investments in Affiliates, an amount primarily composed of intangible assets. We cannot be certain that we will realize the value of such intangible assets. An impairment of our intangible assets or an other-than-temporary decline in the value of our equity investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We and our Affiliates rely on certain key personnel and cannot guarantee their continued service.We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and our other officers and employees. Our executive officers, in particular, play an important role in the stability and growth of our existing Affiliates and in identifying potential investment opportunities. We do not have employment agreements with our executive officers, although each has a significant deferred equity interest in the Company and is subject to non-solicitation and non-competitive restrictions that may be triggered upon their departure. However, there is no guarantee that these officers will remain with the Company.In addition, our Affiliates depend heavily on the services of key principals, who in many cases have managed their firms for many years. These principals often are primarily responsible for their firm’s investment decisions. Although we use a combination of economic incentives, transfer restrictions and, in some instances, non-solicitation and employment agreements in an effort to retain key management personnel, there is no guarantee that these principals will remain with their firms. Since certain Affiliates contribute significantly to our revenue, the loss of key management personnel at these Affiliates could have a disproportionately adverse impact on our business.Investment management contracts are subject to termination on short notice.Through our Affiliates, we derive almost all of our revenue from clients pursuant to investment management contracts. While certain Affiliates’ private equity and alternative products have long-term commitment periods, many of our Affiliates’ investment management contracts are terminable by the client without penalty upon relatively short notice (typically not longer than 60 days) and may not be assignable without consent. We cannot be certain that our Affiliates will be able to retain their existing clients or attract new clients. If their clients withdraw a substantial amount of funds, it is likely to harm our results of operations. In addition, investment management contracts with mutual funds are subject to annual approval by each fund’s board of directors.Our or our Affiliates’ controls and procedures and risk management policies may be inadequate, fail or be circumvented, and procedures may be inadequate, and operational risk could adversely affect our or our Affiliates’ reputation and financial position.We and our Affiliates have adopted various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risk in our and their businesses. While we currently believe that our and our Affiliates’ operational controls are effective, we cannot provide assurance that those controls, procedures, policies and systems will always be adequate to identify and manage the internal and external risks in our and our Affiliates’ various businesses. Furthermore, we or our Affiliates may have errors in business processes or fail to implement proper procedures in operating our or their businesses, which may expose us or our Affiliates to risk of financial loss or failure to comply with a regulatory requirement. We and our Affiliates are also subject to 11Table of Contentsthe risk that employees or contractors, or other third parties, may deliberately seek to circumvent established controls to commit fraud or act in ways that are inconsistent with our or our Affiliates’ controls, policies and procedures. The financial and reputational impact of control failures can be significant.In addition, our and our Affiliates’ businesses and the markets in which we and our Affiliates operate are continuously evolving. If our or our Affiliates’ risk framework is ineffective, either because of a failure to keep pace with changes in the financial markets, regulatory requirements, our or our Affiliates’ businesses, counterparties, clients or service providers or for other reasons, we or our Affiliates could incur losses, suffer reputational damage or be out of compliance with applicable regulatory or contractual mandates or expectations.Provisions in our organizational documents, Delaware law and our debt agreements could delay or prevent a change in control of our company.Provisions in our charter and by-laws and anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control of the Company. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to replace our executive officers without the consent of our Board of Directors. Provisions in our charter and by-laws that could delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control include:•the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock and to determine the terms, rights and preferences of the preferred stock without stockholder approval; and•the prohibition on the right of stockholders to call meetings or act by written consent and limitations on the right of stockholders to present proposals or make nominations at stockholder meetings.Delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our credit facilities and the indentures governing our senior notes contain various covenants that limit our ability, among other things, to consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. Further, given our long-term partnership approach, which is designed to preserve our Affiliates’ investment and operational autonomy and independence, a change in control may also be viewed negatively by our Affiliates, impacting their relationships with us. These anti-takeover provisions and other factors may inhibit a change in control in circumstances that could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price of our common stock, and may result in negative impacts on our financial results in periods following a change in control.The sale or issuance of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the expectation that such sales or issuances will occur, could adversely impact the price of our common stock.The sale or issuance of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely impact its price. In connection with our financing activities, we have issued securities and entered into contracts, including our junior convertible trust preferred securities and equity distribution program, that may result in the issuance of our common stock upon the occurrence of certain events. We also have exercisable options outstanding and unvested restricted stock that have been awarded under our share-based incentive plans. Additionally, we have the right to settle certain Affiliate equity repurchase obligations with shares of our common stock. Moreover, in connection with future financing activities, we may issue additional convertible securities or shares of our common stock, including through forward equity transactions. Any such issuance of shares of our common stock could have the effect of substantially diluting the interests of our current equity holders. In the event that a large number of shares of our common stock are sold or issued in the public market, or the expectation that such sales or issuances will occur, the price of our common stock may decline as a result.Failure to maintain and properly safeguard an adequate technology infrastructure may limit our or our Affiliates’ growth, result in losses or disrupt our or our Affiliates’ businesses.Our and our Affiliates’ businesses are reliant upon financial, accounting and technology systems and networks to process, transmit and store information, including sensitive client and proprietary information, and to conduct many business activities and transactions with clients, advisors, vendors and other third parties. The failure to implement, maintain and safeguard an infrastructure commensurate with the size and scope of our and our Affiliates’ businesses could impede productivity and growth, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Further, we and our Affiliates rely on third parties for certain aspects of our respective businesses, including financial intermediaries and technology infrastructure and service providers, including brokers, custodians, administrators and other agents, and these parties are also susceptible to similar risks.12Table of ContentsAlthough we and our Affiliates take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, computer systems, software, networks and mobile devices, and those of third parties on whom we and our Affiliates rely, may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks, breaches, unauthorized access, theft, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If any such events occur, it could jeopardize confidential, proprietary or other sensitive information of ours, our Affiliates and our respective clients, employees or counterparties that may be stored in, or transmitted through, internal or third-party computer systems, networks and mobile devices, or could otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our and our Affiliates’ operations or those of our respective clients or counterparties. Despite efforts to ensure the integrity of systems and networks, it is possible that we, our Affiliates or third-party service providers may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all threats, especially because the techniques used change frequently and can originate from a wide variety of sources. As a result, we or our Affiliates could experience disruption, significant losses, increased costs, reputational harm, regulatory actions or legal liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We or our Affiliates may be required to spend significant additional resources to modify protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we or our Affiliates may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against fully or not fully covered through any insurance that we or our Affiliates maintain. Further, recent well-publicized security breaches at other companies have led to enhanced government and regulatory scrutiny of the measures taken by companies to protect against cyber-attacks, and may in the future result in heightened cyber security requirements, including additional regulatory expectations for oversight of vendors and service providers.Our financial results could be adversely affected by the financial stability of other financial institutions.We and our Affiliates routinely execute transactions with various counterparties in the financial services industry. Historical market volatility highlights the interconnection of the global markets and demonstrates how the deteriorating financial condition of one or more institutions may materially and adversely impact the performance of other institutions. We and our Affiliates may be exposed to credit, operational or other risk in the event that a counterparty with whom we or our Affiliates transact defaults on its obligations, or if there are other unrelated systemic failures in the markets.13Table of ContentsItem 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments