Item 1A. Risk Factors.”These factors (among others) could affect our financial performance and cause actual results to differ materially from historical earnings and those presently anticipated and projected. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we will not undertake and we specifically disclaim any obligation to release publicly the result of any revisions that may be made to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of events, whether or not anticipated. In that respect, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.Item 1.BusinessWe are a global asset management company with equity investments in leading boutique investment management firms, which we refer to as our “Affiliates.” Our innovative partnership approach allows each Affiliate’s management team to own significant equity in their firm and maintain operational autonomy. Our strategy is to generate shareholder value through the growth of existing Affiliates, as well as through investments in new Affiliates and additional investments in existing Affiliates. In addition, we provide centralized assistance to our Affiliates in strategic matters, marketing, distribution, product development and operations. As of December 31, 2018, our aggregate assets under management were $736.0 billion in more than 500 investment products across a broad range of active, return-oriented strategies.We hold meaningful equity interests in each of our Affiliates and typically each Affiliate’s management team retains a significant equity interest in their own firm. Affiliate management equity ownership (along with our long-term ownership) aligns our interests, enhances Affiliate management equity incentives, and preserves the opportunity for Affiliate management to participate directly in the long-term future growth and profitability of their firms. Our innovative partnership approach also provides Affiliate management with a degree of liquidity and financial diversification and ensures that they maintain their unique entrepreneurial culture and independence by preserving their operational autonomy in managing their business. Given our long-term partnership approach, we address the ongoing succession planning issues facing the Affiliate’s principal owners by facilitating the transfer of equity over time to the next generation of Affiliate management. At certain Affiliates, we do not have an obligation to repurchase equity interests, but we may make additional investments to further facilitate Affiliate ownership transition. Although we invest in boutique investment management firms that we anticipate will grow independently, given our long-term partnership approach, we enhance our Affiliates’ growth prospects by providing access to the resources and scale of a global asset management company.We provide succession planning solutions to boutique investment management firms and we are focused on investing in firms around the world managing active, return-oriented strategies, including traditional and alternative firms, as well as wealth management firms. We identify high-quality boutique firms based on our thorough understanding of the investment management industry, and we have developed long-term relationships with a significant number of these firms. Within our target universe, we seek strong and stable boutiques that offer active, return-oriented strategies, such as alternative strategies and global equities strategies. These boutiques are typically characterized by a strong multi-generational management team, entrepreneurial culture and commitment to building long-term success. We anticipate that the principal owners of boutique investment management firms will continue to need a succession planning partner and we will, therefore, continue to have significant investment opportunities across the global asset management industry, including investment opportunities resulting from subsidiary divestitures, secondary sales and other 1Table of Contentsspecial situations. In addition, we also have the opportunity to make additional investments in our existing Affiliates. We are well-positioned to execute upon these investment opportunities through our established process of identifying and cultivating investment prospects, our broad industry relationships, and our substantial experience and expertise in structuring and negotiating transactions. We have a strong global reputation as an outstanding partner to our Affiliates, and we are widely recognized in the marketplace as providing innovative solutions for the succession planning and strategic needs of boutique investment management firms.Investment Management OperationsThrough our Affiliates, we provide a comprehensive and diverse range of active, return-oriented strategies designed to assist institutional, retail and high net worth clients worldwide in achieving their investment objectives. We manage disciplined and focused investment strategies that address the specialized needs of institutional clients, including foundations and endowments, defined benefit and defined contribution plans for corporations and municipalities, and multi-employer plans. We provide boutique investment management expertise to retail investors through advisory and sub-advisory services to active, return-oriented mutual funds, Undertakings for the Collective Investment of Transferable Securities (“UCITS”), Collective Investment Trusts and other retail products. We also provide investment management and customized investment counseling and fiduciary services to high net worth individuals, families and charitable foundations, and to individually managed accounts via intermediaries, including brokerage firms or other sponsors.As of December 31, 2018, we managed $736.0 billion in equities, alternative and multi-asset strategies in more than 500 investment products across investment styles, asset classes and geographies. The following chart provides information regarding our equities, alternative, and multi-asset strategies as of December 31, 2018.  Global DistributionThrough our Affiliates, we offer investors access to a broad and diverse array of independent boutique managers with distinct brands and specialized investment processes. Our Affiliates distribute their investment services and products to institutional investors through direct sales efforts and established relationships with consultants and intermediaries around the world through their own business development resources. In addition, our global distribution platform operates in major markets to extend the reach of our Affiliates’ own business development efforts. Our Affiliates benefit from the expertise of our senior sales and marketing professionals located in Asia, Australia, Europe, the Middle East, and the UK.Our Affiliates’ investment management services are also distributed globally to retail investors through our Affiliates’ own efforts and through our retail distribution platforms in the form of advisory and sub-advisory services to mutual funds and other retail oriented products. Our Affiliates’ investment management services are delivered to retail investors through various intermediaries, including independent investment advisers, retirement plan sponsors, broker-dealers, major fund marketplaces, sponsors of separately managed accounts (including unified managed accounts), and bank trust departments.2Table of ContentsOur Affiliates currently manage assets for investors in more than 50 countries, including all major developed markets.Our Structure and Relationship with AffiliatesWe maintain long-term partnerships with the management equity owners of our Affiliates, and believe that Affiliate management equity ownership (along with our long-term ownership) aligns our and our Affiliates’ interests, enhances Affiliate management equity incentives and preserves the opportunity for Affiliate management to participate directly in the long-term future growth and profitability of their firms. Our innovative partnership approach allows each Affiliate’s management team to retain sufficient equity in their firm to address their particular needs. Equity ownership also provides Affiliate management with a degree of liquidity and financial diversification and ensures that they maintain their unique entrepreneurial culture and independence by preserving their operational autonomy in managing their business. Although the equity structure of each Affiliate investment is tailored to meet the needs of the management equity owners of the particular Affiliate, we typically maintain a meaningful equity interest in the Affiliate, with a significant equity interest retained by Affiliate management.Each of our Affiliates operates through distinct legal entities, which affords us the flexibility to design a separate operating agreement for each Affiliate that reflects our customized arrangements with respect to governance, economic participation, equity incentives and the other terms of our relationship. In each case, the operating agreement provides for a governance structure that gives Affiliate management the authority to manage and operate the business on a day-to-day basis. The operating agreement also reflects the specific terms of our economic participation in the Affiliate, which, in each case, uses a “structured partnership interest” to ensure alignment of our economic interests with those of Affiliate management.For a majority of our Affiliates, we use structured partnership interests in which we contractually share in the Affiliate’s revenue without regard to expenses. In this type of structured partnership interest, the Affiliate allocates a specified percentage of its revenue to us, while using the remainder of its revenue for operating expenses and for distributions to Affiliate management. We and Affiliate management, therefore, participate in any increase or decrease in revenue, and only Affiliate management participates in any increase or decrease in expenses. Our contractual share of revenue generally has priority over the distributions to Affiliate management. For other Affiliates, we use structured partnership interests in which we contractually share in the Affiliate’s revenue less agreed-upon expenses. This type of partnership interest allows us to benefit from any increase in revenue or any decrease in the agreed-upon expenses, but also exposes us to any decrease in revenue or any increase in such expenses. The degree of our exposure to expenses from these structured partnership interests varies by Affiliate and includes Affiliates in which we fully share in the expenses of the business. When we own a controlling interest in an Affiliate, we consolidate the Affiliate’s financial results into our Consolidated Financial Statements. When we do not own a controlling interest in an Affiliate, but have significant influence, we account for our interest in the Affiliate under the equity method. Under the equity method of accounting, we do not consolidate the Affiliate’s results into our Consolidated Financial Statements. Instead, our share of earnings or losses, net of amortization and impairments, is included in Equity method income (loss) (net) in our Consolidated Statements of Income, and our interest in these Affiliates is reported in Equity method investments in Affiliates (net) in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.Whether we consolidate an Affiliate’s financial results or use the equity method of accounting, we maintain the same partnership approach and provide support and assistance in substantially the same manner for all of our Affiliates. From time to time, we may restructure our interest in an Affiliate to better support the Affiliate’s growth strategy.CompetitionOur Affiliates compete with a large number of domestic and foreign investment management firms, as well as with subsidiaries of larger financial organizations. These firms may have significantly greater financial, technological and marketing resources, captive distribution and assets under management, and many of these firms offer an even broader array of products and services in particular investment strategies. Certain of our Affiliates offer their investment management services to the same client types and, from time to time, may compete with each other for clients. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry for new investment management firms, especially for those looking to provide investment management services to institutional and high net worth investors. We believe that the most important factors affecting our Affiliates’ ability to compete for clients are the:3Table of Contents•investment performance track records, investment styles, discipline, and reputations of our Affiliates and their management teams;•depth and continuity of our and our Affiliates’ client relationships;•diversity of our Affiliates’ products and level of client service offered by us and our Affiliates;•maintenance of strong business relationships by us and our Affiliates with major intermediaries;•continued development, either organically or through new investments, of investment strategies to meet the changing needs and risk tolerances of investors; •continued success of our Affiliates’ distribution efforts; and•changes in investor preferences, such as the continued growth in passively-managed products.The relative importance of each of these factors can vary depending on client type and the investment management service involved, as well as general market conditions. The ability to compete with other investment management firms also depends, in part, on the relative attractiveness of our Affiliates’ active, return-oriented strategies, market trends, fees or a combination of these factors. We compete with a number of acquirers of and investors in boutique investment management firms, including other investment management companies, private equity firms, sovereign wealth funds and larger financial organizations. We believe that the most important factors affecting our ability to compete for future investments are the:•breadth and depth of our relationships with boutique investment management firms;•degree to which target firms view our investment model as more stable because of our succession planning capabilities;•purchase price, equity incentive structures, and access to economies of scale that we offer (financially, operationally or otherwise) as compared to acquisition or investment arrangements offered by others; and•reputation and performance of our Affiliates, by which target firms may judge us and our future prospects.Government Regulation  Our Affiliates offer their investment management services and products around the world, and are subject to complex and extensive regulation by regulatory and self-regulatory authorities and exchanges in various jurisdictions. Virtually all aspects of the asset management business, including the provision of advice, investment strategies and trading, fund sponsorship, and product-related sales and distribution activities, are subject to regulation. These regulations are primarily intended to protect the clients of investment advisers and generally grant regulatory authorities broad administrative powers. The majority of our Affiliates are registered with the SEC as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the “Advisers Act”). The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers, including fiduciary duties, compliance and disclosure obligations, and operational and recordkeeping requirements. Our Affiliates operating outside of the U.S. are subject to regulation by various regulatory and self-regulatory authorities and exchanges in the relevant jurisdictions, including, for those Affiliates active in the UK, the Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”). Many of our Affiliates also sponsor or advise registered and unregistered funds in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, and are subject to regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions where those funds are sponsored or offered, including, with respect to mutual funds, the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”). The Investment Company Act governs the operations of mutual funds and imposes obligations on their advisers, including investment restrictions and other governance, compliance, reporting and fiduciary obligations relating to the management of mutual funds. Our Affiliates’ sales and marketing activities are subject to regulation by authorities in the jurisdictions in which they offer investment management products and services. Our Affiliates’ ability to transact business in these jurisdictions, and to conduct related cross-border activities, is subject to the continuing availability of regulatory authorization. Through our global 4Table of Contentsdistribution platform, we also engage in sales and marketing activities that extend the reach of our Affiliates’ own business development efforts, and which are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions. Our U.S. retail distribution subsidiary is registered with the SEC under the Advisers Act. This subsidiary sponsors mutual funds registered under the Investment Company Act, and serves as an investment adviser and/or administrator for the AMG Funds complex. In the UK, our global distribution subsidiary is regulated by the FCA and serves as the promoter for our Irish UCITS platform, which sponsors UCITS funds managed by Affiliates and marketed in Europe. We also have global distribution subsidiaries or branches of subsidiaries regulated by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority, the Dubai Financial Services Authority, the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong, and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission. Certain of our Affiliates and our U.S. retail distribution subsidiary are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”), and related regulations, with respect to retirement plan clients. ERISA imposes duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, and prohibits certain transactions involving related parties to a retirement plan. The U.S. Department of Labor (“DOL”) administers ERISA and regulates investment advisers who service retirement plan clients, and has been increasingly active in proposing and adopting additional regulations applicable to the asset management industry. Certain of our Affiliates and our U.S. retail distribution subsidiary are also members of the National Futures Association and are regulated by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) with respect to the management of funds and other products that utilize futures, swaps or other CFTC-regulated instruments. In addition, certain of our Affiliates and our U.S. retail broker-dealer subsidiary are registered broker-dealers and members of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), for the purpose of distributing funds or other products. FINRA has adopted extensive regulatory requirements relating to sales practices, registration of personnel, compliance and supervision, and compensation and disclosure. FINRA and the SEC have the authority to conduct periodic examinations of member broker-dealers, and may also conduct administrative proceedings. These broker-dealers are also subject to net capital rules in the U.S. that mandate the maintenance of certain levels of capital, and our Affiliates and global distribution subsidiaries may also be subject to other regulatory capital requirements imposed by non-U.S. regulatory authorities.Due to the extensive laws and regulations to which we and our Affiliates are subject, we and our Affiliates must devote substantial time, expense and effort to remain current on, and to address, legal and regulatory compliance matters. We have established compliance programs for each of our operating subsidiaries, and each of our Affiliates has established compliance programs to address regulatory compliance requirements for its operations. We and our Affiliates have experienced legal and compliance professionals in place to address these requirements, and have relationships with various legal and regulatory advisers in each of the countries where we and our Affiliates conduct business. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”Employees and Corporate OrganizationAs of December 31, 2018, we had approximately 4,450 employees, the substantial majority of which were employed full-time by our Affiliates. Neither we nor our Affiliates are subject to any collective bargaining agreements, and we believe that our and our Affiliates’ labor relations are good. We were formed in 1993 as a corporation under the laws of the State of Delaware.Our WebsiteOur website is www.amg.com. Our website provides information about us, and, from time to time, we may use it to distribute material company information. We routinely post financial, investment performance and other important information regarding the Company in the Investor Relations section of our website and we encourage investors to consult that section regularly. The Investor Relations section of our website also includes copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, including exhibits, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished with the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We make these reports available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after our electronic filing of such materials with, or the furnishing of them to, the SEC. The information contained or incorporated on our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.5Table of ContentsItem 1A.Risk FactorsWe and our Affiliates face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including those related to markets, liquidity, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risks. The following are some of the more important factors that could affect our and our Affiliates’ businesses. Certain statements in “Risk Factors” are forward-looking statements. See “Forward-Looking Statements.”Our financial results depend on our Affiliates’ receipt of asset and performance based fees, and are impacted by investment performance, as well as changes in fee levels, product mix and the relative levels of assets under management among our Affiliates.Our financial results depend on our Affiliates’ receipt of asset and performance based fees. Asset based fees are primarily based on a percentage of the value of assets under management, and vary with the nature of the account or product managed. In certain instances, our Affiliates are paid fees based on investment performance on an absolute basis or relative to a benchmark and, as such, are dependent upon investment results that may vary substantially from year to year. Our Affiliates’ ability to maintain current fee levels depends on a number of factors, including our Affiliates’ investment performance, as well as competition and trends in the asset management industry, including recent fee pressure, driven in part by investor demand for passively-managed products that typically carry lower fee rates. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, our Affiliates may reduce or waive fees on certain products for particular time periods, to attract or retain managed assets or for other reasons. Further, different types of assets under management can generate different ratios of asset based fees to assets under management (“asset based fee ratio”), based on factors such as the investment strategy and the type of client. Thus, a change in the composition of our assets under management, either within an Affiliate or among our Affiliates, could result in a decrease in our aggregate fees even if our aggregate assets under management remains unchanged or increases. Products that use fee structures based on investment performance may also vary significantly from period to period, depending on the investment performance of the particular product. For some of our Affiliates, performance based fees include a high-watermark provision, which generally provides that if a product underperforms on an absolute basis or relative to its benchmark, it must regain such underperformance before the Affiliate will earn any performance based fees. No assurances can be given that our Affiliates will be able to maintain current fee structures or levels. A reduction in the asset or performance based fees that our Affiliates receive could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our structured partnership interests are tailored to meet the needs of each Affiliate and are therefore varied, and our earnings may be adversely affected by changes in the relative performance or in the relative levels and mix of assets under management among our Affiliates, independent of our aggregate operating performance measures. Further, certain Affiliates contribute significantly to our results and, therefore, changes in fee levels, product mix, assets under management or investment performance of such Affiliates could have a disproportionate adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.Our financial results could be adversely affected by any reduction in our assets under management, which could reduce the asset and performance based fees earned by our Affiliates.Our earnings depend on our Affiliates’ receipt of asset and performance based fees and may be impacted by changes in the total level of our assets under management. The total level of our assets under management generally or with particular products or Affiliates could be adversely affected by conditions outside of our control, including: •a decline in market value of our assets under management, including due to declines in the capital markets, fluctuations in exchange and interest rates, inflation rates or the yield curve, and other market factors; •changes in investor risk tolerance or investment preferences, such as the continued growth in passively-managed products, which could result in investor allocations away from active, return-oriented strategies offered by us or our Affiliates; •our Affiliates’ ability to attract and retain client assets and market products and services, which may be impacted by the investment performance of our Affiliates’ products, our Affiliates’ ability to maintain and develop client relationships and to adapt to trends in product and service offerings, and volatility in the capital markets or in the prices of securities generally;•global economic conditions, which may be exacerbated by changes in the equity or debt markets;•financial crises, political or diplomatic developments, war, terrorism or natural disasters; and6Table of Contents•other factors that are difficult to predict.A reduction in our assets under management could adversely affect the asset and performance based fees payable to our Affiliates and, ultimately, our financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is highly competitive.Our Affiliates compete with a broad range of domestic and foreign investment management firms, including public, private and client-owned investment advisers, firms managing passively-managed products, as well as other firms managing active, return-oriented strategies, firms associated with securities broker-dealers, financial institutions, insurance companies, private equity firms, sovereign wealth funds and other entities. These firms may have significantly greater financial, technological and marketing resources, captive distribution and assets under management, and many of these firms offer an even broader array of products and services in particular investment strategies. Competition from these firms may reduce the fees that our Affiliates can obtain for investment management services, or could impair our Affiliates’ ability to attract and retain client assets. We believe that our Affiliates’ ability to compete effectively with other firms depends upon our Affiliates’ strategies, investment performance, reputations, client relationships, fee structures, client-servicing capabilities, and the marketing and distribution of their investment strategies, among other factors. See “Competition” in Item 1. Our Affiliates may not compare favorably with their competitors in any or all of these categories. From time to time, our Affiliates may also compete with each other for clients. Our Affiliates represent a diverse group of boutique investment management firms with predominantly active, return-oriented strategies, rather than passively-managed products, which typically carry lower fee rates. Changes in investor risk tolerance or investment preferences, such as the continued growth in passively-managed products, could result in investor allocation away from active, return-oriented strategies.The market for acquisitions of interests in boutique investment management firms is highly competitive. Many other public and private financial services companies, including commercial and investment banks, private equity firms, sovereign wealth funds, insurance companies and investment management firms, also invest in or buy boutique investment management firms and may have significantly greater resources than we do. Further, our innovative partnership approach with our Affiliates is designed to provide succession planning and enhanced incentives for management owners, while enabling us to protect our interests, including through structured partnership interests and long-term employment agreements with key members of the firm. Target investment management firms may prefer investments in their firms under terms and structures offered by our competitors. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively with such companies, that new competitors will not enter the market, or that such competitors will not make it more difficult or not feasible for us to maintain existing investments or to make new investments in boutique investment management firms.Our growth strategy depends in part upon our ability to make investments in new boutique investment management firms or additional investments in our existing Affiliates.Our continued success in investing in boutique investment management firms will depend upon our ability to find suitable firms in which to invest or make additional investments in our existing Affiliates, our ability to negotiate agreements with such firms on acceptable terms, and our ability to raise the capital necessary to finance such transactions. Further, the success of these investments depends on our and our Affiliates’ ability to grow their businesses and carry out their management succession plans. In addition, our investments involve a number of risks, including the existence of unknown liabilities that may arise after making an investment. We may not be successful in making investments in such firms, and any firms we do invest in may not have favorable operating results following our investment, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Equity markets and our common stock have been volatile.The market price of our common stock has experienced and may continue to experience volatility, and the broader equity markets have experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations. In addition, announcements of our financial and operating results or other material information, including changes in net client cash flows and assets under management, changes in our financial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, and other developments affecting us, our Affiliates or our competitors, as well as geopolitical, regulatory, economic, and business factors unrelated to us, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially.7Table of ContentsIf our or our Affiliates’ reputations are harmed, we could suffer losses in our business and financial results.Our business depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of our Affiliates and our stockholders, our ability to compete for future investment opportunities, and our and our Affiliates’ reputations among existing and potential clients. Our and our Affiliates’ reputations are critical to our business and could be impacted by events that may be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. For example, alleged or actual failures by us, our Affiliates or our respective employees to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, errors in our public reports, perceptions of our or our Affiliates’ environmental, social and governance practices, threatened or actual litigation against us, any of our Affiliates or our respective employees, cyber-attack or data breach incidents, or the public announcement and potential publicity surrounding any of these events, even if inaccurate, satisfactorily addressed, or if no violation or wrongdoing actually occurred, could adversely impact our or our Affiliates’ reputations and their relationships with clients, our relationships with our Affiliates, and our ability to negotiate agreements with new boutique investment management firms, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our and our Affiliates’ businesses are highly regulated. Our and our Affiliates’ businesses are subject to complex and extensive regulation by regulatory and self-regulatory authorities and exchanges in various jurisdictions around the world, which, for our Affiliates and our U.S. retail distribution subsidiary, include those applicable to investment advisers, as detailed in “Government Regulation” in Item 1. Applicable laws, rules and regulations impose requirements, restrictions and limitations on our and our Affiliates’ businesses, and compliance with these laws, rules and regulations can result in significant expense. Further, this regulatory environment may be altered without notice by new laws or regulations, revisions to existing laws or regulations or new or revised interpretations, guidance or enforcement priorities. Any determination of a failure to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations could expose us, our Affiliates or our respective employees to civil liability, criminal liability, or disciplinary or enforcement action, with penalties that could include the disgorgement of fees, fines, sanctions, suspensions, termination of adviser status, or censure of individual employees or revocation or limitation of business activities or registration, any of which could have an adverse impact on our stock price, financial condition and results of operations. Further, if we, any of our Affiliates or our respective employees were to fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations or be named as a subject of an investigation or other regulatory action, the public announcement and potential publicity surrounding any such investigation or action could have an adverse effect on our stock price and result in increased costs, even if we, our Affiliates or our respective employees were found not to have violated such laws, rules or regulations.Recently implemented and proposed regulations globally have called for more stringent oversight of the financial services industry in which we and our Affiliates operate, which could adversely affect our and our Affiliates’ businesses, increase compliance costs, require that we or our Affiliates curtail operations or investment offerings, or impact our and our Affiliates’ access to capital and the market for our common stock. In the U.S., the SEC recently adopted regulations that created additional reporting requirements for advisers and mutual funds, and adopted Rule 22e-4 under the Investment Company Act that added compliance obligations for mutual funds in the area of liquidity management. Further, in 2018, the SEC proposed Regulation Best Interest, which would enhance the conduct standards applicable to broker-dealers when making investment recommendations and could impact the ability of broker-dealers and other intermediaries to distribute our and our Affiliates’ products. In addition, the SEC released proposed guidance on the fiduciary standard for advisers that could alter the requirements for advisers. In the European Union, regulators continue to consider whether asset managers or funds, or certain asset management products or activities, should be designated as “systemically important” and, therefore, subject to additional regulation. The European Union has also instituted the revised Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID II”), effective beginning in January 2018, which requires the unbundling of research and execution charges for trading and which may result in increased costs for us and our Affiliates. We and certain of our Affiliates are also subject to the European Union’s new General Data Protection Regulation, which expanded data protection rules for individuals within the European Union and for personal data exported outside the European Union. Our and our Affiliates’ businesses may also be impacted by regulatory and other developments relating to the UK’s planned exit from the European Union, which could impact our or our Affiliates’ ability to conduct operations pursuant to a European passport and could require us or certain of our Affiliates to apply for regulatory authorization and permission in a separate European Union member state. The process and terms of the UK’s exit from the European Union could also lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations in the UK that could introduce additional complexities to our and our Affiliates’ global operations, any of which could limit our and our Affiliates’ businesses, result in increased compliance costs and expenses, and expose us and our Affiliates to potential fines and penalties. Further, in recent years, regulators in the U.S., the UK and other jurisdictions have expanded rules and devoted greater resources and attention to the enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws, and while we and our 8Table of ContentsAffiliates have developed and implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these rules, such policies and procedures may not be effective in all instances to prevent violations.Our and our Affiliates’ international operations are subject to foreign risks, including political, regulatory, economic and currency risks.We and certain of our Affiliates conduct business outside the U.S., and a number of our Affiliates are based outside the U.S. Accordingly, we and certain of our Affiliates are subject to risks inherent in doing business internationally, in addition to the risks that our businesses face more generally. These risks may include difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer payment cycles, difficulties in collecting investment advisory fees receivable, different (and in some cases less stringent) legal, regulatory and accounting regimes, political instability, exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, expatriation controls, expropriation risks and potential adverse tax consequences. For example, our and our Affiliates’ businesses may be impacted by the terms of the UK’s exit from the European Union, which could result in fluctuations in exchange rates, disruptions in the capital markets, changes in investor risk tolerance or investment preferences, increased compliance and administrative costs, or other impacts. As part of our and certain of our Affiliates’ planning for the UK’s exit from the European Union, we and such Affiliates have implemented a number of steps to prepare for the various potential outcomes, including plans to establish distribution offices in separate European Union member states and applying for additional licenses and permissions. While we do not expect the UK’s exit from the European Union to have a significant impact on the way we or our Affiliates operate, these plans and developments could result in increases to our and such Affiliates’ compliance and administrative costs. In addition, as a result of operating internationally, certain of our Affiliates and our global distribution subsidiaries are subject to requirements under foreign regulations to maintain minimum levels of capital, and such capital requirements may be increased from time to time, which may have the effect of limiting withdrawals of capital, repayment of intercompany loans and payment of distributions to us. These or other risks related to our and our Affiliates’ international operations may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional tax liabilities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income-based taxes in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, and our Affiliates are generally subject to taxes in the jurisdictions in which they operate. Tax laws, regulations and administrative practices in these jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, and significant judgment is required in estimating and evaluating tax provisions and accruals. Our and our Affiliates’ effective tax rates could be affected by a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes to our or their existing businesses, and changes in relevant tax, accounting or other laws, regulations, administrative practices and interpretations. For example, in December 2017, changes in U.S. tax laws were enacted, which significantly revised the U.S. corporate income tax laws. Although the impact of these changes was beneficial to our results of operations, primarily due to lower U.S. tax rates, portions of the regulations have not yet been finalized, and the U.S. Treasury, as well as federal and state tax authorities, could issue further rules, interpretations and guidance, the timing and substance of which are uncertain. This legislation could also be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, which could have retroactive effect. Further, a portion of our earnings are from outside of the U.S., and the foreign government agencies in jurisdictions in which we do business continue to focus on the taxation of multinational companies, and could implement changes to their tax laws. For example, changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (“BEPS”) project undertaken by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), which includes recommendations that may be adopted in various jurisdictions in which we and our Affiliates do business. Any changes to federal, state or foreign tax laws, regulations, accounting standards or administrative practices, or the release of additional guidance, interpretations or other information relating to the recent U.S. tax legislation or otherwise, could impact our estimated effective tax rate and overall tax expense, as well as our earnings estimates, and could result in adjustments to our treatment of deferred taxes, including the realization or value thereof, or in unanticipated additional tax liabilities, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we and our Affiliates may be subject to tax examinations by certain federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of examinations that we are subject to, in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision; however, tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken or may take, and may assess additional taxes and/or penalties and interest. There can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of any examinations and the actual outcomes could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.9Table of ContentsOur Affiliates’ autonomy limits our ability to alter their management practices and policies, and we may be held responsible for liabilities incurred by certain of our Affiliates.Our operating agreements with our Affiliates provide for governance structures that give Affiliate management the authority to manage and operate their businesses on a day-to-day basis, and we generally are not directly involved in managing those activities, including investment management operations, fee levels, marketing, product development, client relationships, employee matters, compensation programs and compliance activities. As a consequence, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by problems stemming from the day-to-day operations of our Affiliates, where weaknesses or failures in internal processes or systems, legal or regulatory matters, or other operational challenges could lead to a disruption or cessation of our Affiliates’ operations, liability to their clients, exposure to claims or disciplinary action or reputational harm.Certain of our Affiliates are limited liability companies or limited partnerships (or equivalent non-U.S. forms) of which we, or entities controlled by us, are the managing member or general partner (or equivalent). Consequently, to the extent that any of these Affiliates incur liabilities or expenses that exceed their ability to pay for them, we may be directly or indirectly liable for their payment. Similarly, an Affiliate’s payment of distributions to us may be subject to claims by potential creditors, and an Affiliate may default on distributions that are payable to us. In addition, with respect to each of these Affiliates, we may be held liable in some circumstances as a control person for the acts of the Affiliate or its employees. Further, we also conduct distribution, sales and marketing activities through our U.S. retail distribution subsidiary and our global distribution subsidiaries, to extend the reach of our Affiliates’ own business development efforts, and any liability arising in connection with these activities, whether as a result of our own actions or the actions of our participating Affiliates, could result in direct liability to us. Accordingly, we and our Affiliates may face various claims, litigation or complaints from time to time and we cannot predict the eventual outcome of such matters, some of which may be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us or our Affiliates, or whether any such matters could become material to a particular Affiliate or us in any reporting period. While we and our Affiliates maintain errors and omissions and general liability insurance in amounts believed to be adequate to cover potential liabilities, we cannot be certain that we or our Affiliates will not have claims or related expenses that exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, that the insurers will remain solvent and will meet their obligations to provide coverage, or that insurance coverage will continue to be available to us and our Affiliates with sufficient limits and at a reasonable cost. A judgment in excess of available insurance coverage could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We and our Affiliates may be involved in legal proceedings and regulatory matters from time to time, any one or combination of which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations.From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we and our Affiliates may be subject to various legal matters, including litigation, regulatory inquiries and administrative proceedings, which could, whether with or without merit, be time consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management attention and resources. While we and our Affiliates maintain insurance in amounts believed to be adequate to cover potential liabilities, we cannot be certain that we or our Affiliates will not have claims or related expenses that exceed the limits of available insurance coverage or that such coverage will continue to be available with sufficient limits and at a reasonable cost. The public announcement and potential publicity surrounding any legal proceedings or regulatory matters, as well as any judgments, findings, settlements or allegations of wrongdoing, could adversely affect our or their reputation, current and future business relationships, financial condition and results of operations.The structure of our partnership interests in our Affiliates may expose us to unanticipated changes in Affiliate revenue, operating expenses and other commitments, which we may not anticipate and may have limited ability to control.For a majority of our Affiliates, we use structured partnership interests in which we contractually share in the Affiliate’s revenue without regard to expenses. In this type of structured partnership interest, the Affiliate allocates a specified percentage of its revenue to us, while using the remainder of its revenue for operating expenses and for distributions to Affiliate management. In these types of structures, while our distributions generally have priority, our agreed allocations may not anticipate changes in the revenue and operating expense base of the Affiliate, and the revenue remaining after our specified share is allocated to us may not be large enough to cover all of the Affiliate’s operating expenses, which could result in a reduction of the amount allocated to us or could negatively impact the Affiliate’s operations and prospects. For other Affiliates, we use structured partnership interests in which we contractually share in the Affiliate’s revenue less agreed-upon expenses. This type of partnership interest allows us to benefit from any increase in revenue or any decrease in the agreed-upon expenses, but also exposes us to any decrease in revenue or any increase in such expenses. The degree of our 10Table of Contentsexposure to expenses from these structured partnership interests varies by Affiliate and includes Affiliates in which we fully share in the expenses of the business. In these types of structures, we may have limited or no ability to control the level of expenses at the Affiliate, and our distributions generally do not have priority. Further, the impact of Affiliate expenses on our earnings and our stock price could increase if the portion of our earnings derived from such Affiliates increases. As a result of these factors, unanticipated changes in revenue, operating expenses or other commitments at any of our Affiliates could leave the Affiliate with a shortfall in remaining funds for distribution to us or Affiliate management, or for funding their operations. Changes in the global marketplace in particular could result in rapid changes to our Affiliates’ earnings or expenses, and our Affiliates may be unable to make appropriate expense reductions in a timely manner to respond to such changes. Any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our financial condition generally and on our results of operations for the applicable reporting period. Additionally, regardless of the particular structure, we may elect to defer or forgo the receipt of our share of an Affiliate’s revenue or earnings, or to adjust any agreed-upon expenses allocated to us, to permit the Affiliate to fund expenses in light of unanticipated changes in revenue or operating expenses, with the aim of maximizing the long-term benefits. We cannot be certain that any such deferral or forbearance would be of any greater long-term benefit to us, and such a deferral or forbearance may have an adverse effect on our near- or long-term financial condition and results of operations.We may restructure our relationships with our Affiliates, and cannot be certain that any such restructurings will benefit us in the near- or long-term.From time to time, we may restructure our relationships with our Affiliates, which could, among other things, include changes to our structured partnership interests, including changes in our ownership level and in the calculation of our share of revenue and/or operating expenses. Such restructurings may be done in order to address an Affiliate’s succession planning, changes in its revenue or operating expense base, strategic planning or other developments. Any restructuring of our interest in an Affiliate may result in increased exposure to changes in the Affiliate’s revenue and/or operating expenses, or in additional investments or commitments from us, or could increase or reduce our interest in the Affiliate, which in some cases could result in the full divestment of our interest or in our acquisition of all of the equity interests of the Affiliate. In addition, certain of our equity method Affiliates have customary rights in certain circumstances to sell a majority interest in their firm to a third-party and to cause us to participate in such sale. Any such changes could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.We have substantial intangibles on our balance sheet, and any impairment of our intangibles could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.As of December 31, 2018, our total assets were $8.2 billion, of which $3.9 billion were intangibles, and $2.8 billion were equity method investments in Affiliates, an amount primarily composed of intangible assets. We cannot be certain that we will realize the value of such intangible assets. Our intangible assets may become impaired as a result of any number of factors, including changes in market conditions, losses of investment management contracts or declines in the value of managed assets. An impairment of our intangible assets or an other-than-temporary decline in the value of our equity method investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Determining the value of intangible assets, and evaluating them for impairment, requires management to exercise judgment. For additional information, see Notes 12 and 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as the related discussions in the Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments section contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The failure to consummate announced investments in new boutique investment management firms could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The consummation of our announced investments is generally subject to a number of closing conditions, contingencies and approvals, including, but not limited to, obtaining certain consents of the boutique investment management firm’s clients and applicable regulatory approvals. In the event that an announced transaction is not consummated, we may experience a decline in the price of our common stock to the extent that the then-current market price reflects a market assumption that we will complete the announced transaction. In addition, the fact that a transaction did not close after we announced it publicly may negatively affect our prospects and our ability to consummate transactions in the future. Finally, we must pay costs related to these investments, including transaction fees, even if the investments are not completed, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.11Table of ContentsWe expect that we will need to raise additional capital in the future, and existing or future resources may not be available to us in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms.While we believe that our existing cash resources and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for normal operations for the foreseeable future, our continuing acquisitions of interests in new boutique investment management firms and additional investments in our existing Affiliates may require additional capital. Further, we have significant repurchase obligations relating to Affiliate equity interests, and because these obligations are conditional and dependent upon the individual equity holder’s decision to sell his or her equity, it is difficult to predict the frequency and magnitude of these repurchases (our Redeemable non-controlling interests on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2018 was $833.7 million, which includes $91.0 million of Affiliate sponsored consolidated products primarily attributable to third-party investors). We may also call all or a portion of these equity interests upon, among other events, the termination of an equity holder’s employment, although these rights may be limited or suspended in certain circumstances. We also have committed to co-invest in certain investment partnerships, which may be called in future periods. See Notes 10, 19 and 20 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. These obligations may require more cash than is then available from our existing cash resources and cash flow from operations. Thus, we may need to raise capital through additional borrowings or by selling shares of our common stock or other equity or debt securities, or otherwise refinance a portion of these obligations.As of December 31, 2018, we had outstanding senior debt and convertible securities of $2.0 billion. Our level of indebtedness may increase if we fund future investments or other expenses through borrowings. Any additional indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and may require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness.The financing activities described above could increase our Interest expense, decrease our Net income (controlling interest) or dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. In addition, our access to additional capital, and the cost of capital we are able to access, is influenced by a number of factors, including the state of global credit and equity markets, interest rates, credit spreads and our credit ratings. We are rated A3 by Moody’s Investors Service and A- by S&P Global Ratings. The rating agencies could decide to modify their outlook or downgrade our ratings or the ratings of the entire investment management industry, thereby making it difficult for us to access the capital markets. A reduction in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs under our credit facilities. Such a reduction could also require us to post additional collateral or, in certain cases, give rise to a termination right by the counterparty under our derivative financial instruments. Further, our variable rate indebtedness may use the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) as a benchmark for establishing the applicable interest rate. LIBOR is the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. These reforms and other pressures may cause LIBOR to disappear entirely or to perform differently than in the past, and although we have included contractual provisions in our credit facilities that anticipate these potential changes, the consequences cannot be entirely predicted and could result in an increase in the cost of our variable rate indebtedness.Our debt agreements impose certain covenants relating to the conduct of our business, including financial covenants under our credit facilities, any breach of which could result in the acceleration of the repayment of any amounts borrowed or outstanding thereunder.Our credit facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios, including a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio, and also contain customary affirmative operating covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, place certain limitations on our and our subsidiaries’ ability to incur debt, merge or transfer assets and on our ability to create liens. The indentures governing our senior notes also contain restrictions on our ability to merge or transfer assets and on our ability to create liens. The breach of any covenant (either due to our actions or omissions or, in the case of financial covenants, due to a significant and prolonged market driven decline in our operating results) could result in a default under the applicable debt agreement. In the event of any such default, lenders that are party to our credit facilities could refuse to make further extensions of credit to us. Further, in the event of certain defaults, amounts borrowed under our credit facilities and/or outstanding under our senior notes, together with accrued interest and other fees, could become immediately due and payable. If any indebtedness under our credit facilities or the indentures governing our senior notes were to become subject to accelerated repayment, we may not have sufficient liquid assets to repay such indebtedness in full.Market risk management activities may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations.From time to time, we and our Affiliates seek to offset exposure to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and markets by entering into derivative financial instruments. For example, during 2018, we entered into two separate 12Table of Contentspound sterling-denominated forward foreign currency contracts, as well as two separate collar contracts with the same counterparty for the same notional amounts and expiration dates as each of the forward contracts, which were designated as net investment hedges against fluctuations in exchange rates on certain of our investments in Affiliates with the pound sterling as their functional currency. See Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The scope of these risk management activities is selective and varies based on the level and volatility of interest rates, prevailing foreign currency exchange rates and other changing market conditions. We and our Affiliates do not seek to hedge exposure in all currencies or all investments, which means that exposure to certain market risks is not limited. Further, the use of derivative financial instruments does not entirely eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the value of the underlying position or prevent losses if the value of the position declines, and also can limit the opportunity for gain if the value of the position increases. There can be no assurance that our or our Affiliates’ derivative financial instruments will meet their overall objective or that we or our Affiliates will be successful in entering into such instruments in the future. Further, while hedging arrangements may reduce certain risks, such arrangements themselves may entail other risks, may generate significant transaction costs, and may require the posting of cash collateral. For example, if our or our Affiliates’ counterparties fail to honor their obligations in a timely manner, including any obligations to return posted collateral, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We and our Affiliates rely on certain key personnel and cannot guarantee their continued service.We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and our other officers and employees. Our executive officers, in particular, play an important role in the stability and growth of our existing Affiliates and in identifying potential investment opportunities. We generally do not have employment agreements with our executive officers, although each has a significant deferred equity interest in the Company and is subject to non-solicitation and non-competition restrictions that may be triggered upon their departure. While we have succession plans in place for members of our executive and senior management team, there is no guarantee that these officers will remain with the Company. Changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and failure to attract and retain members of our executive or senior management team, or to effectively implement and manage appropriate succession plans, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, our Affiliates depend heavily on the services of key principals who, in many cases, have managed their firms for many years. These principals often are primarily responsible for their firm’s investment decisions. Although we use a combination of economic incentives, transfer restrictions and, in some instances, non-solicitation, non-competition and employment agreements in an effort to retain key personnel, there is no guarantee that these principals will remain with their firms. Since certain of our Affiliates contribute significantly to our revenue, the loss of key personnel at these Affiliates could have a disproportionately adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Investment management contracts are subject to termination on short notice.Through our Affiliates, we derive almost all of our asset and performance based fees from clients pursuant to investment management contracts. While certain of our Affiliates’ private equity and alternative products have long-term commitment periods, many of our Affiliates’ investment management contracts are terminable by the client without penalty upon relatively short notice (typically not longer than 60 days). We cannot be certain that our Affiliates will be able to retain their existing clients or attract new clients. If clients terminate their investment management contracts or withdraw a substantial amount of managed assets, it is likely to harm our results of operations. In addition, investment management contracts with mutual funds or other retail products are subject to annual approval by the fund’s board of directors.Our or our Affiliates’ controls and procedures and risk management policies may be inadequate, fail or be circumvented, and operational risk could adversely affect our or our Affiliates’ reputation and financial position.We and our Affiliates have adopted various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risk in our and their businesses. While we currently believe that our and our Affiliates’ operational controls are effective, we cannot provide assurance that those controls, procedures, policies and systems will always be adequate to identify and manage the internal and external risks in our and our Affiliates’ various businesses. Furthermore, we or our Affiliates may have errors in business processes or fail to implement proper procedures in operating our respective businesses, which may expose us or our Affiliates to risk of financial loss or failure to comply with regulatory requirements. Additionally, although we and our Affiliates have systems and practices in place to monitor third-party service providers, such third parties are subject to similar risks. We and our Affiliates, as well as our respective service providers, are also subject to the risk that employees or contractors, or other third parties, may deliberately seek to circumvent established controls to commit fraud or act in ways that are inconsistent with our or their controls, policies and procedures. The financial and reputational impact of control failures can be significant.13Table of ContentsIn addition, our and our Affiliates’ businesses and the markets in which we and our Affiliates operate are continuously evolving. If our or our Affiliates’ risk frameworks are ineffective, either because of a failure to keep pace with changes in the financial markets, regulatory requirements, our or our Affiliates’ businesses, counterparties, clients or service providers or for other reasons, we or our Affiliates could incur losses, suffer reputational damage or be out of compliance with applicable regulatory or contractual mandates or expectations.Failure to maintain and properly safeguard an adequate technology infrastructure may limit our or our Affiliates’ growth, result in losses or disrupt our or our Affiliates’ businesses.Our and our Affiliates’ businesses are reliant upon financial, accounting and technology systems and networks to process, transmit and store information, including sensitive client and proprietary information, and to conduct many business activities and transactions with clients, advisers, regulators, vendors and other third parties. The failure to implement, maintain and safeguard an infrastructure commensurate with the size and scope of our and our Affiliates’ businesses could impede productivity and growth, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Further, we and our Affiliates rely on third parties for certain aspects of our respective businesses, including financial intermediaries, providers of technology infrastructure, and other service providers such as broker-dealers, custodians, administrators and other agents, and these parties are susceptible to similar risks.Although we and our Affiliates take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, computer systems, software, networks and mobile devices may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks, data privacy or security breaches, ransomware, unauthorized access, theft, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. Further, although we and our Affiliates have systems and practices in place to monitor the third parties on whom we and our Affiliates rely, such third parties may have similar vulnerabilities and may lack the necessary infrastructure or resources, or may otherwise fail, to adequately protect against or respond to any cyber-attacks, data breaches or other incidents. If any such events occur, it could jeopardize confidential, proprietary or other sensitive information of ours, our Affiliates and our respective clients, employees or counterparties that may be stored in, or transmitted through, internal or third-party computer systems, networks and mobile devices, or could otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our and our Affiliates’ operations or those of our respective clients or counterparties, or in the operations of third parties on whom we and our Affiliates rely. The occurrence of any such events could also result in litigation or regulatory action. Despite efforts to ensure the integrity of systems and networks, it is possible that we, our Affiliates or our respective third-party service providers may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all threats, especially because the techniques used change frequently and can originate from a wide variety of sources. As a result, we or our Affiliates could experience disruption, significant losses, increased costs, reputational harm, regulatory actions or legal liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We or our Affiliates may be required to spend significant additional resources to modify protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we or our Affiliates may be subject to litigation, regulatory investigations and potential fines, and financial losses that are either not insured against fully or not fully covered through any insurance that we or our Affiliates maintain. Further, recent well-publicized security breaches at other companies have led to enhanced government and regulatory scrutiny of the measures taken by companies to protect against cyber-attacks and data privacy breaches, and have resulted in heightened security requirements, including additional regulatory expectations for oversight of vendors and service providers. For example, the European Union’s new General Data Protection Regulation became effective in May 2018, and similar regulations are being considered in other jurisdictions.Provisions in our organizational documents, Delaware law and other factors could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company.Provisions in our charter and by-laws and anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control of the Company. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to replace our executive officers without the consent of our Board of Directors. Provisions in our charter and by-laws that could delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control include:•the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock and to determine the terms, rights and preferences of the preferred stock without stockholder approval; and•the prohibition on the right of stockholders to call meetings or act by written consent and limitations on the right of stockholders to present proposals or make nominations at stockholder meetings.14Table of ContentsDelaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock. Further, given our long-term partnership approach with our Affiliates, which is designed to preserve their investment and operational autonomy and independence, a change in control may also be viewed negatively by our Affiliates, impacting their relationships with us. Additionally, the disposition of certain of our Affiliates following a change in control could result in the immediate realization of taxes owed on any excess proceeds above our tax basis in the relevant Affiliate, which could impact the valuation a third-party may apply to us in a change in control.In addition, a change in control of the Company may constitute a change in control for certain of our Affiliates for purposes of the Advisers Act and the Investment Company Act. In that case, absent client consents, the Affiliate’s management agreements may be deemed to be “assigned” in violation of the agreement and, for mutual fund clients, will terminate. We cannot be certain that a particular change in control transaction would not result in a termination or deemed assignment of our Affiliates’ management agreements or that any required consents (which the impacted Affiliates would need to be involved in requesting) would be obtained if such a change of control occurs.These anti-takeover provisions and other factors may inhibit a change in control in circumstances that could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price of our common stock, and may result in negative impacts on our financial results in periods following a change in control.The sale or issuance of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the expectation that such sales or issuances will occur, could adversely impact the price of our common stock.The sale or issuance of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely impact its price. In connection with our financing activities, we have issued securities and entered into contracts, including our junior convertible trust preferred securities and equity distribution program, that may result in the issuance of our common stock upon the occurrence of certain events. We also have exercisable options outstanding and unvested restricted stock that have been awarded under our share-based incentive plans. Additionally, we have the right to settle certain Affiliate equity repurchase obligations with shares of our common stock. Moreover, in connection with future financing activities, we may issue additional convertible securities or shares of our common stock, including through forward equity transactions. Any such issuance of shares of our common stock could have the effect of substantially diluting the interests of our current equity holders. In the event that a large number of shares of our common stock are sold or issued in the public market, or the expectation that such sales or issuances will occur, the price of our common stock may decline as a result.Our financial results could be adversely affected by the financial stability of other financial institutions.We and our Affiliates routinely execute transactions with various counterparties in the financial services industry. Historical and recent market volatility highlights the interconnection of the global markets and demonstrates how the deteriorating financial condition of one or more institutions may materially and adversely impact the performance of other institutions. We and our Affiliates may be exposed to credit, operational or other risk in the event that a counterparty with whom we or our Affiliates transact defaults on its obligations, or if there are other unrelated systemic failures in the markets.Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments