ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   The risk factors set forth below update the risk factors section previously disclosed in Item 1A of Part I of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 (“2007 Form 10-K”).   Risks Relating to Our Business   Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by market fluctuations and by economic and other factors.   Our financial condition and results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic and other factors. Many such factors of a global or localized nature include: political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; terrorism events and armed conflicts; and natural disasters such as weather catastrophes and widespread health emergencies. Furthermore, changes in consumer economic variables, such as the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment, decreases in property values, and the level of consumer confidence and consumer debt, may substantially affect consumer loan levels and credit quality, which, in turn, could impact the results of our banking business. These factors also may have an impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives.   Our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by the current U.S. and global capital market and credit crises, the repricing of credit risk, and by stress in the U.S. and global economies generally. During the last half of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, difficulties in the mortgage and broader capital markets in the United States and elsewhere, coupled with the repricing of credit risk, have created extremely difficult market conditions. These conditions, as well as instability in global equity markets with downward pressure on stock prices, have persisted and increased substantially through the third quarter of fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. This has resulted in greater volatility, less liquidity, variability of credit spreads and a lack of price transparency. By example, the widening of credit spreads has significantly impacted certain market-value structured investment vehicles and other structured credit products, which have experienced rapid deterioration in value and/or failures to meet scheduled payments based on declines in the market value of underlying collateral pools, increased costs or unavailability of credit default hedges or liquidity to their structures, and/or the triggering of covenants that accelerate the amortization or liquidation of these structures. Each of our segments operates in these markets with exposure for ourselves and our clients in securities, loans, derivatives, alternative investments, seed capital and other commitments. It is difficult to predict how long these conditions will exist, which of our markets, products and businesses will continue to be directly affected in revenues, management fees and investment valuations and earnings, and to what extent our clients may seek to bring claims arising out of investment performance. As a result, these factors could materially adversely impact our results of operations.   Certain of our insurance and annuity products and certain of our investment and banking products are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, and our future costs associated with such variations may differ from our historical costs. In addition, interest rate fluctuations could result in fluctuations in the valuation of certain minimum guaranteed benefits contained in some of our variable annuity products. Although we typically hedge against such fluctuations, a significant change in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.   During periods of increasing market interest rates, we must offer higher crediting rates on interest-sensitive products, such as fixed universal life insurance, fixed annuities, face-amount certificates and certificates of deposit, and we must increase crediting rates on inforce products to keep these products competitive. Because returns on invested assets may not increase as quickly as current interest rates, we may have to accept a lower spread and thus lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. In addition, increases in market interest rates may cause increased policy surrenders, withdrawals from life insurance policies, annuity contracts and certificates of deposit and    59      Table of Contents   requests for policy loans, as policyholders, contractholders and depositors seek to shift assets to products with perceived higher returns. This process may lead to an earlier than expected flow of cash out of our business. Also, increases in market interest rates may result in extension of certain cash flows from structured mortgage assets. These withdrawals and surrenders may require investment assets to be sold at a time when the prices of those assets are lower because of the increase in market interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. Increases in crediting rates, as well as surrenders and withdrawals, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. An increase in surrenders and withdrawals also may require us to accelerate amortization of deferred acquisition costs or other intangibles or cause an impairment of goodwill, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net earnings.   During periods of falling interest rates, our “spread”, or the difference between the returns we earn on the investments that support our obligations under these products and the amounts that we must pay policyholders, contractholders and depositors, may be reduced or could become negative, primarily because some of these products have guaranteed minimum crediting rates. Due to the long-term nature of the liabilities associated with certain of our businesses, such as fixed annuities and guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, sustained declines in long-term interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging costs.   Interest rate fluctuations also could have an adverse effect on the results of our investment portfolio. During periods of declining market interest rates, the interest we receive on variable interest rate investments decreases. In addition, during those periods, we are forced to reinvest the cash we receive as interest or return of principal on our investments in lower-yielding high-grade instruments or in lower-credit instruments to maintain comparable returns. Issuers of certain callable fixed income securities also may decide to prepay their obligations in order to borrow at lower market rates, which increases the risk that we may have to invest the cash proceeds of these securities in lower-yielding or lower-credit instruments.   Significant downturns and volatility in equity markets could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Market downturns and volatility may cause potential new purchasers of our products to refrain from purchasing products, such as mutual funds, variable annuities and variable universal life insurance, which have returns linked to the performance of the equity markets. Downturns may also cause current shareholders in our mutual funds and contractholders in our annuity and protection products to withdraw cash values from those products.   Additionally, downturns and volatility in equity markets can have an adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our asset management services, wrap accounts, and variable annuity contracts. Because the profitability of these products and services depends on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, declines in the equity markets will reduce our revenues because the value of the investment assets we manage will be reduced. In addition, some of our variable annuity products contain guaranteed minimum death benefits and guaranteed minimum withdrawal and accumulation benefits. A significant equity market decline, or volatility in equity markets, could result in guaranteed minimum benefits being higher than what current account values would support, thus producing a loss as we pay the benefits, having an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we have hedged a portion of the guarantees for the variable annuity contracts in order to mitigate the financial loss of equity market declines or volatility, there can be no assurance that such a decline or volatility would not materially impact the profitability of certain products or product lines or our financial condition or results of operations.   We believe that investment performance is an important factor in the growth of many of our businesses. Poor investment performance could impair our revenues and earnings, as well as our prospects for growth. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from investment management agreements with the RiverSource family of mutual funds that are terminable on 60 days’ notice. In addition, although some contracts governing investment management services are subject to termination for failure to meet performance benchmarks, institutional and individual clients can generally terminate their relationships with us or our financial advisors at will or on relatively short notice. Our clients can also reduce the    60      Table of Contents   aggregate amount of managed assets or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures, for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, changes in investment preferences, changes in our (or our financial advisors’) reputation in the marketplace, changes in client management or ownership, loss of key investment management personnel and financial market performance. A reduction in managed assets, and the associated decrease in revenues and earnings, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, certain money market funds we advise carry net asset protection mechanisms which can be triggered by a decline in market value of underlying portfolio assets; this could cause us to make a capital contribution to the funds without consideration, which would result in a loss.   In addition, during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our retail businesses. Fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed maturity or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our Asset Management, Advice & Wealth Management and Annuities businesses. Also, during periods of unfavorable economic conditions, unemployment rates often increase, which can result in higher loan delinquency and default rates, and this can have a negative impact on our banking business. Uncertain economic conditions and heightened market volatility may also increase the likelihood that clients or regulators present or threaten legal claims, that regulators may increase the frequency and scope of their examinations of us or the financial services industry generally, and that lawmakers enact new requirements which have a material impact on our revenues, expenses or statutory capital requirements.   Governmental initiatives intended to address capital market conditions may not be effective and may give rise to additional requirements for our business, including new capital requirements or other regulations, that could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity in ways that we cannot predict.   Legislation has been passed in an attempt to address the instability in global financial markets. This legislation includes a provision to grant the U.S. Treasury Department the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions. This legislation or similar proposals, as well as other actions such as monetary or fiscal actions of U.S. government instrumentalities or comparable authorities in other countries, may fail to stabilize the financial markets. This legislation and other proposals or actions may also have other consequences, including material effects on interest rates and foreign exchange rates, which could materially affect our investments, results of operations and liquidity in ways that we cannot predict.   In addition, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities and non-governmental self-regulatory agencies, including foreign regulators, state securities and insurance regulators, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the New York Stock Exchange, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the Office of Thrift Supervision, the U.S. Department of Justice and state attorneys general. The current financial crisis has prompted or may prompt some of these authorities to consider additional regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or otherwise assure the stability of institutions under their supervision. These authorities may also seek to exercise their authority in new or more expansive ways. All of these possibilities, if they occurred, could affect the way we conduct our business and manage our capital, and may require us to satisfy increased capital requirements, any of which in turn could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.   Defaults in our fixed maturity securities portfolio or consumer credit products would adversely affect our earnings.   Issuers of the fixed maturity securities that we own may default on principal and interest payments. As of December 31, 2007, 6% of our invested assets had ratings below investment-grade. Moreover, economic downturns and corporate malfeasance can increase the number of companies, including those with investment-grade ratings, that default on their debt obligations. Default-related    61      Table of Contents   declines in the value of our fixed income securities portfolio or consumer credit products could cause our net earnings to decline and could also cause us to contribute capital to some of our regulated subsidiaries, which may require us to obtain funding during periods of unfavorable market conditions. Higher delinquency and default rates in our bank’s loan portfolio could require us to contribute capital to Ameriprise Bank and may result in additional restrictions from our regulators that impact the use and access to that capital.   If the counterparties to our reinsurance arrangements or to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks default, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.   We use reinsurance to mitigate our risks in various circumstances as described in Item 1 of our 2007 Form 10-K—“Business—Our Segments—Protection—Reinsurance.” Reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. Accordingly, we bear credit and performance risk with respect to our reinsurers. A reinsurer’s insolvency or its inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of our reinsurance agreement could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations that could be material. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders.   In addition, we use a variety of derivative instruments (including options, forwards, and interest rate and currency swaps) with a number of counterparties to hedge several business risks. The amount and breadth of exposure to derivative counterparties has increased significantly in connection with our strategies to hedge guaranteed benefit obligations under our variable annuity products. If our counterparties fail to honor in a timely manner their obligations under the derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. That failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. This risk of failure of our hedge transactions may be increased by capital market volatility, such as the volatility that has been experienced since the second half of 2007.   The Determination of the Amount of Allowances and Impairments Taken on Certain Investments is Subject to Management’s Evaluation and Judgment and Could Materially Impact Our Results of Operations or Financial Position.   The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments vary by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of inherent and known risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances.   The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on management’s case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value that considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and management uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Inherent in management’s evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential, which assumptions and estimates are more difficult to make with certainty under current market conditions.   62      Table of Contents   Some of our investments are relatively illiquid.   We invest a portion of our owned assets in certain privately placed fixed income securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, limited partnership interests, collateralized debt obligations and restricted investments held by securitization trusts, among others, all of which are relatively illiquid. These asset classes represented 15% of the carrying value of our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2007. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of our normal cash requirements, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, or be forced to sell them for an amount less than we would otherwise have been able to realize, or both, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   Intense competition and the economics of changes in our product revenue mix and distribution channels could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share and profitability.   Our businesses operate in intensely competitive industry segments. We compete based on a number of factors including name recognition, service, the quality of investment advice, investment performance, product features, price, perceived financial strength, and claims-paying and credit ratings. Our competitors include broker-dealers, banks, asset managers, insurers and other financial institutions. Many of our businesses face competitors that have greater market share, offer a broader range of products, have greater financial resources, or have higher claims-paying or credit ratings than we do. Some of our competitors may possess or acquire intellectual property rights that could provide a competitive advantage to them in certain markets or for certain products, which could make it more difficult for us to introduce new products and services. Some of our competitors’ proprietary products or technology could be similar to our own, and this could result in disputes that could impact our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, over time certain sectors of the financial services industry have become considerably more concentrated, as financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms. This convergence could result in our competitors gaining greater resources and we may experience pressures on our pricing and market share as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices.   Currently, our branded advisor network distributes annuity and protection products issued almost exclusively by our RiverSource Life companies. If our branded advisor network further opened or expanded its distribution of annuity and protection products of other companies, we could experience lower sales of our companies’ products, higher surrenders, or other developments which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   A drop in investment performance as compared to our competitors could negatively impact our ability to increase profitability.   Sales of our own mutual funds by our affiliated financial advisor network comprise a significant percentage of our total mutual fund sales. We attribute this success to improved investment performance, new products and marketing efforts. A decline in the level of investment performance as compared to our competitors could cause a decline in market share and a commensurate drop in profits as sales of other companies’ mutual funds are less profitable than those from our own mutual funds. A decline in investment performance could also adversely affect the realization of benefits from investments in our strategy to expand alternative distribution channels for our own products, including third-party distribution of our mutual funds.   We face intense competition in attracting and retaining key talent.   We are dependent on our network of branded advisors for a significant portion of the sales of our mutual funds, annuities, face-amount certificates, banking and insurance products. In addition, our    63      Table of Contents   continued success depends to a substantial degree on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to conduct our fund management and investment advisory businesses, as well as senior management. The market for financial advisors, registered representatives, management talent, qualified legal and compliance professionals, fund managers, and investment analysts is extremely competitive and has grown more so in recent periods due to industry growth. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified individuals or our recruiting and retention costs increase significantly, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.   Our businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability, limit our growth, or impact our ability to pay dividends or achieve targeted return-on-equity levels.   We operate in highly regulated industries, and are required to obtain and maintain licenses for many of the businesses we operate in addition to being subject to regulatory oversight. Securities regulators have significantly increased the level of regulation in recent years and have several outstanding proposals for additional regulation. Significant discussion and activity by regulators concerns the sale and suitability of financial products and services to persons planning for retirement, as well as to older investors. In addition, we are subject to heightened requirements and associated costs and risks relating to privacy and the protection of customer data. Our information systems, moreover, may be subject to increased efforts of “hackers” by reason of the customer data we possess. These requirements, costs and risks, as well as possible legislative or regulatory changes, may constrain our ability to market our products and services to our target demographic and potential customers, and could negatively affect our profitability and make it more difficult for us to pursue our growth strategy.   Our insurance companies are subject to state regulation, so must comply with statutory reserve and capital requirements. State regulators are continually reviewing and updating these requirements and other requirements relating to the business operations of insurance companies, including their underwriting and sales practices. Moreover, our life insurance companies are subject to capital requirements for variable annuity contracts with guaranteed death or living benefits. These requirements may have an impact on future statutory reserves and regulatory capital in the event equity market values fall in the future. Our insurance companies are required by state law to be members of the guaranty fund association in every state where they are licensed to do business. In the event of insolvency of one or more unaffiliated insurance companies, our insurance companies could be adversely affected by the requirement to pay assessments to the guaranty fund associations. Moreover, there is active discussion at the NAIC of moving to a principles-based reserving system. This could change statutory reserve requirements significantly, and it is not possible to estimate the impact at this time. Further, we cannot predict the effect that proposed federal legislation, such as the option of federally chartered insurers, may have on our insurance businesses or their competitors.   Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive. Moreover, the evaluation of our compliance with broker-dealer, investment advisor, insurance company and banking regulation by the SEC, OTS and other regulatory organizations is an ongoing feature of our business, the outcomes of which may not be foreseeable. Changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business. Our financial advisors may decide that the direct cost of compliance and the indirect cost of time spent on compliance matters outweigh the benefits of a career as a financial advisor, which could lead to financial advisor attrition. The costs of the compliance requirements we face, and the constraints they impose on our operations, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   In addition, we may be required to reduce our fee levels, or restructure the fees we charge, as a result of regulatory initiatives or proceedings that are either industry-wide or specifically targeted at our company. Reductions or other changes in the fees that we charge for our products and services could reduce our revenues and earnings. Moreover, in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we earned $1.8 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, in distribution fees. A significant portion of these revenues was paid to us by our own RiverSource family of mutual funds in accordance with plans and agreements of distribution adopted under Rule 12b-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or Rule 12b-1. We believe that these fees are a critical element in the distribution of our own mutual funds. However, an industry-wide reduction or restructuring of Rule 12b-1 fees could have a material adverse effect on our ability to distribute our own mutual funds and the fees we receive for distributing other companies’ mutual funds, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our revenues and earnings.   64      Table of Contents   Consumer lending activities at our bank are subject to applicable laws as well as regulation by various regulatory bodies. Changes in laws or regulation could affect our bank’s ability to conduct business. These changes could include but are not limited to our bank’s ability to market and sell products, fee pricing or interest rates that can be charged on loans outstanding, changes in communication with customers that affect payments, statements and collections of loans, and changes in accounting for the consumer lending business.   For a further discussion of the regulatory framework in which we operate, see Item 1 of our 2007 Form 10-K— “Business—Regulation.”   A failure to appropriately deal with conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses.   Our reputation is one of our most important assets. As we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we increasingly have to identify and address potential conflicts of interest, including those relating to our proprietary activities and those relating to our sales of non-proprietary products from manufacturers that have agreed to provide us marketing, sales, and account maintenance support. For example, conflicts may arise between our position as a provider, through our various subsidiaries, of financial planning services and as a manufacturer and/or distributor or broker of asset accumulation, income or insurance products that one of our affiliated financial advisors may recommend to a financial planning client. We have procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address conflicts of interest. However, identifying and appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. In addition, the SEC and other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. It is possible that potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions. It is possible also that the regulatory scrutiny of, and litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest will make our clients less willing to enter into transactions in which such a conflict may occur, and will adversely affect our businesses.   Misconduct by our employees and affiliated financial advisors is difficult to detect and deter and could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition.   Misconduct by our employees and affiliated financial advisors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm. Misconduct can occur in each of our businesses and could include:   · binding us to transactions that exceed authorized limits;   · hiding unauthorized or unsuccessful activities resulting in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses;   · improperly using or disclosing confidential information;   · recommending transactions that are not suitable;   · engaging in fraudulent or otherwise improper activity;   · engaging in unauthorized or excessive trading to the detriment of customers; or   · otherwise not complying with laws or our control procedures.   We cannot always deter misconduct by our employees and affiliated financial advisors, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Prevention and detection among our branded franchisee advisors and our unbranded affiliated financial advisors, who are not employees of our company and tend to be located in small, decentralized offices, present additional    65      Table of Contents   challenges. We also cannot assure that misconduct by our employees and affiliated financial advisors will not lead to a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.   Legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could result in financial losses or harm our businesses.   We are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our operations, both domestically and internationally. Various regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our employees and independent financial advisors and to bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our employees or affiliated financial advisors, are improper. Pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings relating to aspects of our businesses and operations that are specific to us and proceedings that are typical of the industries and businesses in which we operate. Some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. In certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. See Item 3 of our 2007 Form 10-K— “Legal Proceedings.” Substantial legal liability in these or future legal or regulatory actions could have a material adverse financial effect or cause significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects.   A downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.   Financial strength ratings, which various ratings organizations publish as a measure of an insurance company’s ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our products, the ability to market our products and our competitive position. Any downgrade in our financial strength ratings, or the announced potential for a downgrade, could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including:   · reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and investment products;   · adversely affecting our relationships with our affiliated financial advisors and third-party distributors of our products;   · materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders;   · requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; and   · adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance or obtain reasonable pricing on reinsurance.   A downgrade in our credit ratings could also adversely impact our future cost and speed of borrowing and have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.   In view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the ratings organizations will heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, will increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, will request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the ratings organization’s models for maintenance of ratings levels.   We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. As with other companies in the    66      Table of Contents   financial services industry, our ratings could be changed at any time and without any notice by the ratings organizations.   If our reserves for future policy benefits and claims, or for our bank lending portfolio, are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserve liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.   We establish reserves as estimates of our liabilities to provide for future obligations under our insurance policies, annuities and investment certificate contracts. We also establish reserves as estimates of the potential for loan losses in our consumer lending portfolios. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation, but rather are estimates of contract benefits or loan losses and related expenses we expect to incur over time. The assumptions and estimates we make in establishing reserves require certain judgments about future experience and, therefore, are inherently uncertain. We cannot determine with precision the actual amounts that it will pay for contract benefits, the timing of payments, or whether the assets supporting its stated reserves will increase to the levels it estimates before payment of benefits or claims. We monitor our reserve levels continually. If we were to conclude that our reserves are insufficient to cover actual or expected contract benefits or loan collections, we would be required to increase our reserves and incur income statement charges for the period in which we make the determination, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For more information on how we set our reserves, see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders.   Morbidity rates or mortality rates that differ significantly from our pricing expectations could negatively affect profitability.   We set prices for RiverSource life insurance and some annuity products based upon expected claim payment patterns, derived from assumptions we make about the morbidity rates, or likelihood of sickness, and mortality rates, or likelihood of death, of our policyholders and contractholders. The long-term profitability of these products depends upon how our actual experience compares with our pricing assumptions. For example, if morbidity rates are higher, or mortality rates are lower, than our pricing assumptions, we could be required to make greater payments under disability income insurance policies and immediate annuity contracts than we had projected. The same holds true for long term care policies we previously underwrote to the extent of the risks that we have retained. If mortality rates are higher than our pricing assumptions, we could be required to make greater payments under our life insurance policies and annuity contracts with guaranteed minimum death benefits than we had projected.   The risk that our claims experience may differ significantly from our pricing assumptions is particularly significant for our long term care insurance products notwithstanding our ability to implement future price increases. As with life insurance, long term care insurance policies provide for long-duration coverage and, therefore, our actual claims experience will emerge over many years. However, as a relatively new product in the market, long term care insurance does not have the extensive claims experience history of life insurance, and, as a result, our ability to forecast future claim rates for long term care insurance is more limited than for life insurance. We have sought to moderate these uncertainties to some extent by partially reinsuring long term care policies we previously underwrote and by limiting our present long term care insurance offerings to policies underwritten fully by an unaffiliated third party, and we have also implemented rate increases on certain inforce policies as described in Item 1 of our 2007 Form 10-K— “Business—Our Segments—Protection—RiverSource Insurance Products—Long Term Care Insurance”. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to implement additional rate increases in the future or that we will receive regulatory approval to the full extent and timing of any rate increases that we may seek.   We may face losses if there are significant deviations from our assumptions regarding the future persistency of our insurance policies and annuity contracts.   The prices and expected future profitability of our life insurance and deferred annuity products are based in part upon assumptions related to persistency, which is the probability that a policy or contract will    67      Table of Contents   remain inforce from one period to the next. The effect of persistency on profitability varies for different products. For most of our life insurance and deferred annuity products, actual persistency that is lower than our persistency assumptions could have an adverse impact on profitability, especially in the early years of a policy or contract, primarily because we would be required to accelerate the amortization of expenses we deferred in connection with the acquisition of the policy or contract.   For our long term care insurance, actual persistency that is higher than our persistency assumptions could have a negative impact on profitability. If these policies remain inforce longer than we assumed, then we could be required to make greater benefit payments than we had anticipated when we priced or partially reinsured these products. Some of our long term care insurance policies have experienced higher persistency and poorer loss experience than we had assumed, which led us to increase premium rates on certain of these policies.   Because our assumptions regarding persistency experience are inherently uncertain, reserves for future policy benefits and claims may prove to be inadequate if actual persistency experience is different from those assumptions. Although some of our products permit us to increase premiums during the life of the policy or contract, we cannot guarantee that these increases would be sufficient to maintain profitability. Additionally, some of these pricing changes require regulatory approval, which may not be forthcoming. Moreover, many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or limit those increases during the life of the policy or contract, while premiums on certain other products (primarily long term care insurance) may not be increased without prior regulatory approval. Significant deviations in experience from pricing expectations regarding persistency could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products.   We may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs, which would increase our expenses and reduce profitability.   Deferred acquisition costs (“DAC”) represent the costs of acquiring new business, principally direct sales commissions and other distribution and underwriting costs that have been deferred on the sale of annuity, life and disability income insurance and, to a lesser extent, marketing and promotional expenses for personal auto and home insurance, and distribution expense for certain mutual fund products. For annuity and universal life products, DAC are amortized based on projections of estimated gross profits over amortization periods equal to the approximate life of the business. For other insurance products, DAC are generally amortized as a percentage of premiums over amortization periods equal to the premium-paying period. For certain mutual fund products, we generally amortize DAC over fixed periods on a straight-line basis.   Our projections underlying the amortization of DAC require the use of certain assumptions, including interest margins, mortality rates, persistency rates, maintenance expense levels and customer asset value growth rates for variable products. We periodically review and, where appropriate, adjust our assumptions. When we change our assumptions, we may be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC or to record a charge to increase benefit reserves.   As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had $4.5 billion of DAC and we amortized $551 million, $472 million and $431 million, respectively, of DAC as a current-period expense for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. For more information regarding DAC, see the information contained in our 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders under the captions “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Critical Accounting Policies—Deferred Acquisition Costs” and “—Recent Accounting Pronouncements.”   Breaches of security, or the perception that our technology infrastructure is not secure, could harm our business.   Our business requires the appropriate and secure utilization of consumer and other sensitive information. Our operations require the secure transmission of confidential information over public    68      Table of Contents   networks. Security breaches in connection with the delivery of our products and services, including products and services utilizing the Internet, and the trend toward broad consumer and general public notification of such incidents, could significantly harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Even if we successfully protect our technology infrastructure and the confidentiality of sensitive data, we could suffer harm to our business and reputation if attempted security breaches are publicized. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities, attempts to exploit vulnerabilities in our systems, data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology or other security measures protecting the networks used in connection with our products and services.   Protection from system interruptions is important to our business. If we experience a sustained interruption to our telecommunications or data processing systems, it could harm our business.   System or network interruptions could delay and disrupt our ability to develop, deliver or maintain our products and services, causing harm to our business and reputation and resulting in loss of customers or revenue. These interruptions can include fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, equipment failures, failures of internal or vendor software or systems and other events beyond our control.   Risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including employee and financial advisor misconduct.   We have devoted significant resources toward developing our risk management policies and procedures and will continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. Many of our methods of managing risk and exposures are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. During periods of market volatility or due to unforeseen events, the historically derived correlations upon which these methods are based may not be valid. As a result, these methods may not accurately predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than what our models indicate. This could cause us to incur investment losses or cause our hedging and other risk management strategies to be ineffective. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible to us, which may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated.   Moreover, we are subject to the risks of errors and misconduct by our employees and affiliated financial advisors — such as fraud, non-compliance with policies, recommending transactions that are not suitable, and improperly using or disclosing confidential information — which is difficult to detect in advance and deter, and could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are further subject to the risk of nonperformance or inadequate performance of contractual obligations by third party vendors of products and services that are used in our businesses. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. Insurance and other traditional risk-shifting tools may be held by or available to us in order to manage certain exposures, but they are subject to terms such as deductibles, coinsurance, limits and policy exclusions, as well as risk of counterparty denial of coverage, default or insolvency.   As a holding company, we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us to pay dividends and to meet our obligations.   We act as a holding company for our insurance and other subsidiaries. Dividends from our subsidiaries and permitted payments to us under our intercompany arrangements with our subsidiaries are our principal sources of cash to pay shareholder dividends and to meet our other financial obligations. These obligations include our operating expenses and interest and principal on our borrowings. If the cash we receive from our subsidiaries pursuant to dividend payment and intercompany arrangements is    69      Table of Contents   insufficient for us to fund any of these obligations, we may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of additional debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. If any of this happens, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.   Insurance, banking and securities laws and regulations regulate the ability of many of our subsidiaries (such as our insurance, banking and brokerage subsidiaries and our face-amount certificate company) to pay dividends or make other distributions. See Item 1 of our 2007 Form 10-K— “Regulation” as well as the information contained in our 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” In addition to the various regulatory restrictions that constrain our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to our company, the rating agencies impose various capital requirements on our company and our insurance company subsidiaries in order for us to maintain our ratings and the ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, which also constrains our and their ability to pay dividends.   Changes in U.S. federal income or estate tax law could make some of our products less attractive to clients.   Many of the products we issue or on which our businesses are based (including both insurance products and non-insurance products) enjoy favorable treatment under current U.S. federal income or estate tax law. Changes in U.S. federal income or estate tax law could thus make some of our products less attractive to clients.   We are subject to tax contingencies that could adversely affect our provision for income taxes.   We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have significant business operations. These tax laws are complex and may be subject to different interpretations. We must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and must also make estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit.   In addition, changes to the Internal Revenue Code, administrative rulings or court decisions could increase our provision for income taxes. For example, on August 16, 2007, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) issued a revenue ruling which purports, among other things, to modify the calculation of the deduction for dividends received by life insurance companies. Subsequently, on September 25, 2007, the IRS issued another revenue ruling that suspended the August 16 ruling and announced a new regulation project on the issue. The income tax benefit of the separate account dividends received deduction for current year dividends was approximately $46 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007.   Risks Relating to Our Common Stock   The market price of our shares may fluctuate.   The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:   · changes in expectations concerning our future financial performance and the future performance of the financial services industry in general, including financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts;   · differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts;   · strategic moves by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;   70      Table of Contents   · changes in the regulatory framework of the financial services industry and regulatory action; and   · changes in general economic or market conditions.   Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.   Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the market value of our common stock.   Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making them unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others:   · a board of directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms;   · elimination of the right of our shareholders to act by written consent;   · rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings;   · the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; and   · limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors.   Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock.   We believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of our company and our shareholders.   71      Table of Contents   ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS