ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   Part I, Item 1A of our 2009 10-K sets forth information relating to the material risks and uncertainties that affect our business and common stock. In addition, the following factors should be read in conjunction with and supplement and amend the risk factors set forth in our 2009 10-K that may affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.   Changes in accounting standards could have a material impact on our financial statements.   From time to time, the FASB, the SEC, and other regulators change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of our financial statements. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. These changes are difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations and other financial data, even in instances where they may not have an economic impact on our business.   For example, the FASB updated the accounting standard related to the required consolidation of certain VIEs, effective January 1, 2010. We adopted the accounting standard effective January 1, 2010 and recorded as a cumulative change in accounting principle an increase to appropriated retained earnings of consolidated investment entities and consolidated client assets and liabilities in VIEs onto our consolidated balance sheets that were not previously consolidated. While the economics of our business have not changed, the financial statements were impacted. See “Adoption of New Accounting Standards — Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities” in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in this report, which portion is incorporated herein by reference. Further revisions to this standard, or proposed revisions to other standards, may have an additional impact on us, which cannot be predicted at this time.   Recent changes in the supervision and regulation of the financial industry, including those set forth under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.   On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”) into law. The Act calls for sweeping changes in the supervision and regulation of the financial industry designed to provide for greater oversight of financial industry participants, reduce risk in banking practices and in securities and derivatives trading, enhance public company corporate governance practices and executive compensation disclosures, and provide greater protections to individual consumers and investors. Certain elements of the Act became effective immediately, though the details of many provisions are subject to additional studies and will not be known until final rules are adopted by applicable regulatory agencies. The impact of the Act on the Company, the financial industry and the economy cannot be known until all such rules and regulations called for under the Act have been finalized, and, in some cases, implemented over time.   Accordingly, while the final contours of these reforms are not yet known, the Act is expected to impact the manner in which we market our products and services, manage our Company and its operations and interact with regulators, all of which could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Certain provisions of the Act that may impact our business include but are not limited to restrictions on proprietary trading, the establishment of a fiduciary standard for broker-dealers, the imposition of capital requirements on financial holding companies and greater oversight over derivatives trading. Further, the Company and its subsidiaries will need to respond to changes to the framework for the supervision of U.S. financial institutions, including the creation of the Financial Stability Oversight Counsel and the abolishment of the Office of Thrift Supervision, which has been the primary regulator of both our banking subsidiary and the holding company. Moreover, to the extent the Act impacts the operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of unaffiliated financial institutions with whom we transact business, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce their capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with us.   On July 21, 2010, the SEC proposed certain measures that would establish a new framework to replace the requirements of Rule 12b-1 under the Investment Company Act of 1940, with respect to how mutual funds collect and pay fees to cover the costs of selling and marketing their shares. The proposed changes are subject to public comment and, following any enactment, would be phased in over a number of years. As these measures are not final nor undergoing implementation throughout the financial services industry, the impact of changes such as those currently proposed cannot be predicted at this time.   85      Table of Contents   ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS