ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   There have been no material changes in the risk factors provided in Part I, Item 1A of our 2011 10-K; however, the risk factor relating to system interruptions and operating errors is updated as set forth below:   Protection from system interruptions and operating errors is important to our business. If we experience a sustained interruption to our telecommunications or data processing systems, or other failure in operational execution, it could harm our business.   System or network interruptions could delay and disrupt our ability to develop, deliver or maintain our products and services, causing harm to our business and reputation and resulting in loss of affiliated advisors, clients or revenue. Interruptions could be caused by operational failures arising from employee or advisor error or malfeasance, interference by third parties, including hackers, our implementation of new technology, as well from our maintenance of existing technology. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate or report data properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process transactions or provide products and services to our clients. These interruptions can include fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters, power losses, equipment failures, failures of internal or vendor software or systems and other events beyond our control. Further, we face the risk of operational failure (including, without limitation, failure caused by an inaccuracy, untimeliness or other deficiency in data reporting), termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate or are component providers to our securities transactions and other product manufacturing and distribution activities. These risks are heightened by our deployment in response to both investor interest and evolution in the financial markets of increasingly sophisticated products, such as those which incorporate automatic asset re-allocation, long/short trading strategies or multiple portfolios or funds, and business-driven hedging, compliance and other risk management or investment or financial management strategies. Any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely impact our ability to effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk, or otherwise achieve desired outcomes. For example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2012, our results were unfavorably impacted from a tax-related item that resulted from our discovery that we had received incomplete data from a third-party service provider for securities lending activities that resulted in the miscalculation of our dividend received deduction and foreign tax credit, which resulted in an understatement of taxes payable and an overstatement of reported earnings in prior periods.   85      Table of Contents   ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS