ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this report, the following risk factors should be considered before deciding to invest in any of Abbott’s securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to Abbott, or risks Abbott currently considers immaterial, could also affect Abbott’s actual results. Abbott’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Abbott may acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form alliances, or dispose of or spin-off businesses, which could cause it to incur significant expenses and could negatively affect profitability. Abbott may pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, and strategic alliances, or dispose of or spin-off some of its businesses, as part of its business strategy. Abbott may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits. If Abbott is successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. Abbott may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business and could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. Abbott could also experience negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. These effects could cause a deterioration of Abbott’s credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense. Abbott holds a significant investment in Boston Scientific and is subject to market and credit risk. On April 21, 2006, in connection with Abbott’s acquisition of the vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses of Guidant Corporation, Abbott purchased 64.6 million shares of Boston Scientific stock for $1.4 billion and loaned BSC International Holding, Limited (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Boston Scientific) $900 million on a subordinated basis. As long as Abbott holds the shares, Abbott will have a substantial undiversified equity investment in Boston Scientific and, therefore, will be subject to the risk of changes in the market value of those shares. Until October 2007, Abbott generally may not, in any one month period, sell more than approximately 5.4 million shares. Additionally, Abbott is required to dispose of these shares no later than October 31, 2008. As long as the loan is outstanding, Abbott will be a general unsecured creditor of Boston Scientific with respect to the $900 million loan and, as such, is subject to credit risk. The expiration or loss of patent protection and licenses may affect Abbott’s future revenues and operating income. Many of Abbott’s businesses rely on patent and trademark and other intellectual property protection. Although most of the challenges to Abbott’s intellectual property have come from other businesses, governments may also challenge intellectual property protections. To the extent Abbott’s intellectual property is successfully challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or to the extent it does not allow Abbott to compete effectively, Abbott’s business will suffer. To the extent that countries do not enforce Abbott’s intellectual property rights or to the extent that countries require compulsory licensing of its intellectual property, Abbott’s future revenues and operating income will be reduced. Abbott’s principal patents and trademarks are described in greater detail in the sections captioned, “Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses” and “Financial Review,” and litigation regarding these patents is described in the section captioned “Legal Proceedings.” 10    Competitors’ intellectual property may prevent Abbott from selling its products or have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s future profitability and financial condition. Competitors may claim that an Abbott product infringes upon their intellectual property. Resolving an intellectual property infringement claim can be costly and time consuming and may require Abbott to enter into royalty or license agreements. If this should be necessary, Abbott cannot guarantee that it would be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on commercially reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject Abbott to significant damages or an injunction preventing the manufacture, sale or use of affected Abbott products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s profitability and financial condition. Abbott is subject to cost-containment efforts that could cause a reduction in future revenues and operating income. In the United States and other countries, Abbott’s businesses have experienced downward pressure on product pricing. Cost-containment efforts by the government and private organizations are described in greater detail in the section captioned “Regulation.” To the extent these cost containment efforts are not offset by greater patient access to healthcare or other factors, Abbott’s future revenues and operating income will be reduced. Abbott is subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes. Abbott’s products are subject to rigorous regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and numerous other national, supranational, federal and state authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a drug or medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products, or additional indications or uses of existing products, on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain approvals for, future products, or new indications and uses, could result in delayed realization of product revenues and in substantial additional costs. In addition, no assurance can be given that Abbott will remain in compliance with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once clearance or approval has been obtained for a product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling and advertising and postmarketing reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns. Many of Abbott’s facilities and procedures and those of Abbott’s suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Abbott must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure compliance with these complex regulations. Possible regulatory actions could include warning letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of Abbott’s products and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to Abbott’s business practices and operations; refunds, recalls or seizures of Abbott’s products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of Abbott’s facilities while Abbott or Abbott’s suppliers remedy the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events could disrupt Abbott’s business and have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s revenues, profitability and financial condition. Laws and regulations affecting government benefit programs could impose new obligations on Abbott, require Abbott to change its business practices, and restrict its operations in the future. Abbott’s industry is also subject to various federal, state and international laws and regulations pertaining to government benefit program reimbursement, price reporting and regulation, and health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws, the Medicaid Rebate Statute, the Veterans Health Care Act and individual state laws relating to pricing and sales and marketing practices. Violations  11    of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans Administration health programs. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and they are subject to evolving interpretations, which could require Abbott to incur substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of its sales or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt Abbott’s business and result in a material adverse effect on Abbott’s revenues, profitability and financial condition. If Abbott does not introduce new products in a timely manner, Abbott’s products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy Abbott’s products, and Abbott’s revenue and profitability may decline. Demand for Abbott’s products may change in ways Abbott does not anticipate. This could occur, for example, due to changing customer needs, the introduction by others of new products and technologies, or changing industry standards. Without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, Abbott’s products may become obsolete over time, causing Abbott’s revenue and operating results to suffer. Even if Abbott succeeds in creating new product candidates, these candidates may not become commercially successful products if Abbott does not achieve positive clinical outcomes, meet regulatory requirements, or establish and maintain its intellectual property rights. Even if Abbott successfully develops new products or enhancements or new generations of Abbott’s existing products, they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by Abbott’s competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. Finally, innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice, the need for regulatory clearance, and uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. The manufacture of many of Abbott’s products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if Abbott or one of its suppliers encounters problems manufacturing products, Abbott’s business could suffer. The manufacture of many of Abbott’s products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters and environmental factors. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. To the extent Abbott or one of its suppliers experiences significant manufacturing problems, this could have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s revenues and profitability. The international nature of Abbott’s business subjects it to additional business risks that may cause its revenue and profitability to decline. Abbott’s business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Sales outside of the United States make up more than 45% of Abbott’s net sales. The risks associated with Abbott’s operations outside the United States include: · changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; · multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict Abbott’s ability to manufacture and sell its products; · differing local product preferences and product requirements; 12    · trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; · difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing foreign operations; · differing labor regulations; · potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; · political and economic instability; · inflation, recession and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates; and · diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries. These risks may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s revenues and profitability. Significant safety issues could arise for Abbott’s products, which could have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s revenues and financial condition. All health care products receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. Following regulatory approval, these products will be used over longer periods of time in many patients. Investigators may also conduct additional, and perhaps more extensive, studies. If new safety issues are reported, Abbott may be required to amend the conditions of use for a product. For example, Abbott may be required to provide additional warnings on a product’s label or narrow its approved indication, either of which could reduce the product’s market acceptance. If serious safety issues with an Abbott product arise, sales of the product could be halted by Abbott or by regulatory authorities. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, Abbott is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that its products have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits and safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, may have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s business and reputation and on Abbott’s ability to attract and retain customers. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s profitability and financial condition. Other factors can have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s future profitability and financial condition. Many other factors can affect Abbott’s profitability and its financial condition, including: · Changes in the assumptions used to calculate the recorded amount of certain assets and liabilities, such as those used to calculate the cost for pension and post-employment benefits and stock-based compensation, or actual results differing from those assumptions. · Changes in or interpretations of laws and regulations including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements and environmental laws in domestic or foreign jurisdictions. · Changes in the rate of inflation, interest rates, market value of Abbott’s equity investments, and the performance of investments held by Abbott’s employee benefit trusts. · Changes in business and political conditions, including (i) war, political instability, terrorist attacks in the U.S. and other parts of the world, the threat of future terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related military action, (ii) natural disasters, (iii) the cost and availability of insurance due to any of the foregoing events, and (iv) labor disputes, strikes, slow-downs or other forms of labor or union activity. · Changes in Abbott’s business units and investments and changes in the relative and absolute contribution of each to earnings and cash flow resulting from evolving business strategies, changing  13    product mix, changes in tax rates both in the U.S. and abroad and opportunities existing now or in the future. · Changes in the buying patterns of a major distributor, retailer, or wholesale customer resulting from buyer purchasing decisions, pricing, seasonality, or other factors, or other problems with licensors, suppliers, distributors and business partners. · Legal difficulties, any of which could preclude or delay commercialization of products or adversely affect profitability, including claims asserting statutory or regulatory violations, adverse litigation decisions, and issues regarding compliance with any governmental consent decree or corporate integrity agreement. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates and projections. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “forecasts,” variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Certain factors, including but not limited to those identified under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K, may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations, estimates, projections, forecasts and from past results. No assurance can be made that any expectation, estimate or projection contained in a forward-looking statement will be achieved or will not be affected by the factors cited above or other future events. Abbott undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments. 14     ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS