ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and you should carefully consider them. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. For discussion of our potential risks or uncertainties, refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, included in our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Except as set forth below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  As described in Item 1A, Risk Factors and Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, in our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K, our investment portfolios are subject to varying economic and market conditions, as well as regulation. Listed below is supplemental disclosure regarding how we account for, and the effect of, these varying economic and market conditions, including the potential impact on our financial statements.  The value of our investments is influenced by varying economic and market conditions, and a decrease in value may result in a loss charged to income.  Our available-for-sale investment securities were $15.2 billion and represented 31% of our total consolidated assets at September 30, 2008. These assets are carried at fair value, and the unrealized gains or losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of shareholders’ equity, unless the decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and we do not have the intent and ability to hold such securities until their full cost can be recovered. If a decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and we do not have the intent and ability to hold such security until its full cost can be recovered, the security is deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired and it is written down to fair value and the loss is charged to income.  In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we review our investment securities to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other-than-temporary. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. We conduct this review on a quarterly basis, using both quantitative and qualitative factors, to determine whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary. Such factors considered include the length of time and the extent to which market value has been less than cost, financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, recommendations of investment advisors and forecasts of economic, market or industry trends. This review process also entails an evaluation of our ability and intent to hold individual securities until they mature or full cost can be recovered.  The current economic environment and recent volatility of securities markets increase the difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. During the nine months ended September 30, 2008, we recorded charges for other-than-temporary impairment of securities of $762.3 million. We believe we have adequately reviewed our investment securities for impairment and that our investment securities are carried at fair value. However, over time, the economic and     -58-     market environment may provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding impairment. This could result in realized losses relating to other-than-temporary declines being charged against future income. Given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and additional material other-than-temporary impairments may be charged to income in future periods, resulting in realized losses.  Adverse securities and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs.  The securities and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, make payments on our indebtedness and pay capital expenditures. The principal sources of our cash receipts are premiums, administrative fees, investment income, other revenue, proceeds from the sale or maturity of our investment securities, proceeds from borrowings, proceeds from the exercise of stock options and our employee stock purchase plan.  One of our sources of liquidity is our $2.5 billion commercial paper program. The commercial paper markets have recently experienced increased volatility and disruption, resulting in higher costs to issue commercial paper, which has influenced our use of commercial paper. As a result, we have reduced the amount of commercial paper outstanding, with $1.3 billion outstanding as of September 30, 2008 as compared to $2.0 billion outstanding at June 30, 2008. We continue to monitor the commercial paper markets and will act in a prudent manner. Should commercial paper issuance be unavailable, we intend to use a combination of cash on hand and/or our $2.4 billion senior credit facility to redeem our commercial paper when it matures. While there is no assurance in the current economic environment, we believe the lenders participating in our senior credit facility will be willing and able to provide financing in accordance with their legal obligations.  Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms.    -59-      ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS