ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  Except as set forth below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Recently enacted federal health care reform legislation, as well as potential additional changes in federal or state regulations, or the application thereof, could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operation.  During the first quarter of 2010, the U.S. Congress passed and the President signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as well as the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which will result in significant changes to the current U.S. health care system. The legislation is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage over time by increasing the eligibility thresholds for most state Medicaid programs and providing certain other individuals and small businesses with tax credits to subsidize a portion of the cost of health insurance coverage. The legislation includes a requirement that most individuals obtain health insurance coverage beginning in 2014 and also a requirement that most large employers offer coverage to their employees or they will be required to pay a financial penalty.  In addition, the new laws encompass certain new taxes and fees, including an excise tax on high premium insurance policies, limitations on the amount of compensation that is tax deductible and new fees on companies in our industry which may not be deductible for income tax purposes. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act also imposes new regulations on the health insurance sector, including, but not limited to, guaranteed coverage requirements, prohibitions on some annual and all lifetime limits, increased restrictions on rescinding coverage, establishment of minimum medical loss ratio requirements, a requirement to cover preventive services on a first dollar basis, the establishment of state insurance exchanges and essential benefit packages and greater limitations on how we price certain of our health insurance products. Additionally, the legislation reduces the reimbursement levels for health plans participating in the Medicare Advantage program over time.  Some provisions of the health care reform legislation became effective this year including those that bar health insurance companies from placing lifetime limits on insurance coverage, those related to the increased restrictions on rescinding coverage and those that extend coverage of dependents to the age of 26. The establishment of minimum medical loss ratios, which could have a significant impact on our operations, will take effect for certain of our businesses beginning in January 2011. Lastly, other significant changes, including the annual fees on health insurance companies, the excise tax on high premium insurance policies, the guaranteed coverage requirements and the requirement that individuals obtain coverage, do not become effective until 2014 or later.  Many of the details of the new law, including, but not limited to, the medical loss ratio requirements, require additional guidance and specificity to be provided by the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Labor, the Department of the Treasury and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. While proposed regulations on some provisions have been released for review and comment, all of which we are carefully evaluating, it is too early to fully understand the impacts of the legislation on our overall business. For example, while the National Association of Insurance Commissioners has released their proposed regulations governing medical loss ratios, they are subject to finalization by the Department of Health and Human Services and could change significantly as a result. In addition, California recently passed legislation establishing an insurance exchange within that state to comply with the related provisions that become effective in 2014. As California is the first state to provide a structure for such state-based insurance exchanges, pursuant to the    -74-    Table of Contents  legislation, other states may adopt a similar format for their exchanges. These legislations could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations, including potential impairments of our goodwill and other intangible assets.  In addition, federal and state regulatory agencies may further restrict our ability to obtain new product approvals, implement changes in premium rates or impose additional restrictions, under new or existing laws, such as minimum medical loss ratio requirements or restricted definitions of costs to be included when calculating medical loss ratios under such definitions. Our ability to secure sufficient premium rates, including regulatory approval for and implementation of such rates on a timely basis, may be restricted by additional changes in federal and state regulations or by the application of existing federal and state regulations. A limitation on our ability to increase or maintain our premium rates and more restrictive medical loss ratio requirements could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.      ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS