ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  Except as set forth below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  There are various risks associated with providing health care services.  Many states in which we operate our subsidiary, CareMore Health Group, Inc. and its affiliates, limit the practice of medicine to licensed individuals or professional organizations comprised of licensed individuals. Business corporations generally may not exercise control over the medical decisions of physicians (“corporate practice of medicine”) and we are not licensed to practice medicine. Rules and regulations relating to the practice of medicine, fee-splitting between physicians and referral sources, and similar issues vary from state to state. Further, certain federal and state laws prohibit the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of any form of remuneration to induce, or in return for, the referral of patient care opportunities, including, but not limited to, Medicare patients, (“anti-kickback rules”) and also generally prohibit physicians from making referrals to any entity providing certain designated health services if the referring physician or related person has an ownership or financial interest in the entity (“self-referral rules”).  We believe that our health care service operations comply with applicable rules and regulations regarding the corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting, anti-kickback, self-referral and similar issues. However, any enforcement actions by governmental officials alleging non-compliance with these rules and regulations could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations.    -47-    Table of Contents The direct provision of health care services also involves risks of additional litigation arising from medical malpractice actions based on our treatment decisions or brought against us or our physician associates for alleged malpractice or professional liability claims arising out of the delivery of health care and related services. In addition, liability may arise from maintaining health care premises that serve the public. If we fail to maintain adequate insurance coverage for these liabilities, or if such insurance is not available, the resulting costs could adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations.  ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS