ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  Except as set forth below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Federal Health Care Reform legislation, as well as expected additional changes in federal or state regulations, could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operation.  The passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or Affordable Care Act, as well as the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or HCERA, or collectively, Health Care Reform, during 2010 represents significant changes to the current U.S. health care system. The legislation is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage over time by increasing the eligibility thresholds for most state Medicaid programs and providing certain other individuals and small businesses with tax credits to subsidize a portion of the cost of health insurance coverage. The legislation includes a requirement that most individuals obtain health insurance coverage beginning in 2014 and also a requirement that certain large employers offer coverage to their employees or pay a financial penalty. In addition, the new laws include certain new taxes and fees, including an excise tax on high premium insurance policies, limitations on the amount of compensation that is tax deductible and new fees on companies in our industry, some of which will not be deductible for income tax purposes.    -51-    Table of Contents The legislation also imposes new regulations on the health insurance sector, including, but not limited to, guaranteed coverage requirements, prohibitions on some annual and all lifetime limits on amounts paid on behalf of or to our members, increased restrictions on rescinding coverage, establishment of minimum medical loss ratio requirements, a requirement to cover preventive services on a first dollar basis, the establishment of state insurance exchanges and essential benefit packages and greater limitations on how we price certain of our products. The legislation also reduces the reimbursement levels for our health plans participating in the Medicare Advantage program over time.  Some of the provisions of the Health Care Reform legislation became effective immediately upon enactment, while other provisions will become effective over the next several years. These changes could impact us through potential disruption to the employer-based market, potential cost shifting in the health care delivery system to insurance companies and limitations on the ability to increase premiums to meet costs. We will need to dedicate material resources and incur material expenses to implement and comply with Health Care Reform at both the state and federal levels, including implementing and complying with the future regulations that will provide guidance on an clarification of significant portions of the legislation. The Health Care Reform law and regulations are likely to have significant effects on our future operations, which in turn, could impact the value of our business model and results of operations, including potential impairments of our goodwill and other intangible assets.  In addition, federal and state regulatory agencies may further restrict our ability to obtain new product approvals, implement changes in premium rates or impose additional restrictions, under new or existing laws that could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.  Changes in the regulation of our business by state and federal regulators may adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.  Our insurance, managed health care and HMO subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the insurance, managed health care or HMO regulatory authorities of each state in which they are licensed or authorized to do business, as well as to regulation by federal and local agencies. We cannot assure that future regulatory action by state insurance or HMO authorities or federal regulatory authorities will not have a material adverse effect on the profitability or marketability of our health benefits or managed care products or on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, because of our participation in government-sponsored programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, changes in government regulations or policy with respect to, among other things, reimbursement levels, eligibility requirements and additional governmental participation could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot ensure that application of the federal and/or state tax regulatory regime that currently applies to us will not, or future tax regulation by either federal and/or state governmental authorities concerning us could not, have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition.  State legislatures will continue to focus on health care delivery and financing issues in the wake of Health Care Reform. Most states are very focused on how to manage and reduce their budgets and are exploring ways to mitigate costs. As such, they are contemplating significant reform of their health insurance markets to include provisions affecting both public programs and privately-financed health insurance arrangements. As these proposals are still being debated in the various legislatures, we cannot assure you that, if enacted into law, these proposals would not have a negative impact on our business, operations or financial condition. In addition, California continues to consider legislative proposals to require prior regulatory approval premium rate increases or establish minimum benefit expense ratio thresholds. These proposals include a potential ballot proposition regarding prior regulatory approval of rate increases for the individual and small group products, which, if passed, could prevent us from securing necessary rate and benefit changes. This initiative has not yet qualified to be included on the ballot. If enacted, these state proposals could have a material adverse impact on our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. States also continue to engage in stakeholder discussions around the establishment of exchanges. Now that the Supreme Court has decided that the Affordable Care Act is constitutional, states must    -52-    Table of Contents  decide whether to 1) develop their own exchange; 2) rely on the Department of Health and Human Services to operate the exchange in the state; or 3) implement a compromise federally facilitated exchange.  From time to time, Congress has considered various forms of managed care reform legislation, which, if adopted, could fundamentally alter the treatment of coverage decisions under ERISA. Additionally, there have been legislative attempts to limit ERISA’s pre-emptive effect on state laws and litigants’ ability to seek damages beyond the benefits offered under their plans. If adopted, such limitations could increase our liability exposure, could permit greater state regulation of our operations, and could expand the scope of damages, including punitive damages, litigants could be awarded. While we cannot predict if any of these initiatives will ultimately become effective or, if enacted, what their terms will be, their enactment could increase our costs, expose us to expanded liability or require us to revise the ways in which we conduct business. Further, as we continue to implement our e-business initiatives, uncertainty surrounding the regulatory authority and requirements in this area may make it difficult to ensure compliance.  We face intense competition to attract and retain employees. Further, managing key executive succession and retention is critical to our success.  We are dependent on retaining existing employees and attracting additional qualified employees to meet current and future needs and achieving productivity gains from our investment in technology. We face intense competition for qualified employees, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such employees or that such competition among potential employers will not result in increasing salaries. An inability to retain existing employees or attract additional employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.  We would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for succession of our Chief Executive Officer, and senior management and retention of key executives. While we have succession plans in place, and continue to review and update those plans, and we have employment arrangements with certain key executives, these plans and arrangements do not guarantee that the services of our senior executives will continue to be available to us or that we will be able to attract and retain suitable successors.  The acquisition of a retail contact lenses distributor exposes us to certain risks inherent in the consumer retail market that may adversely affect our business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations.  Our acquisition of 1-800 CONTACTS, Inc., a direct marketer of contact lenses and eyeglasses through telephone and Internet sites, exposes us to certain new risks inherent in the consumer eye care retail market. We rely on manufacturers of contact lenses, eyeglass frames, prescription eyeglass lenses, and other associated products to supply sufficient quantities for our needs, and to employ best manufacturing practices to avoid product liability claims. Selling prescription medical devices creates numerous regulatory risks due to applicable rules promulgated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the Federal Trade Commission. These regulations include prescription verification rules, labeling and usage instructions and document retention requirements. Business licensing and registration requirements vary from state to state. These requirements are usually interpreted and enforced by state attorneys general. Violations of any of the federal or state regulations and requirements could result in civil or criminal penalties or injunctions. All of these risks could result in regulatory action which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations.  We may not complete the acquisition of AMERIGROUP Corporation within the time frame we anticipate or at all, which could have a negative effect on our business or our results of operations.  On July 9, 2012, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we will acquire all of the outstanding shares of AMERIGROUP Corporation, or Amerigroup. The transaction is subject to a number of closing    -53-    Table of Contents  conditions, such as antitrust and other regulatory approvals, which may not be received or may take longer than expected. The transaction is also subject to other risks and uncertainties, such as the possibility that Amerigroup could receive an unsolicited proposal from a third party or that either we or Amerigroup could exercise our respective termination rights. If the transaction is not consummated within the expected time frame, or at all, it could have a negative effect on our ability to execute on our growth strategy or on our financial performance.  We may experience difficulties in integrating Amerigroup’s business and realizing the expected benefits of the proposed acquisition.  The success of the Amerigroup acquisition, if completed, will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities and growth prospects from combining our businesses with those of Amerigroup. We may never realize these business opportunities and growth prospects. Integrating operations will be complex and will require significant efforts and expenditures on the part of both us and Amerigroup. Our management might have its attention diverted while trying to integrate operations and corporate and administrative infrastructures. We might experience increased competition that limits our ability to expand our business, and we might fail to capitalize on expected business opportunities, including retaining current customers.  In addition, we and Amerigroup have operated, and until the completion of the Amerigroup acquisition will continue to operate, independently. The integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses, tax costs or inefficiencies, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, information technology systems, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, employees or other third parties or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Amerigroup acquisition and could harm our financial performance.  If we are unable to successfully or timely integrate the operations of Amerigroup’s business into our business, we may be unable to realize the revenue growth, synergies and other anticipated benefits resulting from the proposed acquisition and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.  Even if we complete the Amerigroup acquisition, the acquired business may underperform relative to our expectations.  Even if we complete the Amerigroup acquisition, the acquired business may underperform, causing our consolidated financial results to differ from our own expectations. In particular, Medicaid and Medicare program premiums account for most of Amerigroup’s revenue. Changes in Medicaid or Medicare funding by the states or the federal government could substantially reduce Amerigroup’s profitability. The Medicare program has been the subject of recent regulatory reform initiatives, most notably the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “Affordable Care Act”), which is still in the process of being implemented. It is difficult to predict the impact of the Affordable Care Act on Amerigroup’s business before or after the closing of the Amerigroup acquisition due to the Affordable Care Act’s complexity, lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, gradual and potentially delayed implementation, and possible amendment. The Affordable Care Act, other regulatory reform initiatives or additional changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, could have a material adverse effect on Amerigroup’s business and results of operations before or after the closing of the Amerigroup acquisition.    -54-    Table of Contents   ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS