ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORSExcept as set forth below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K.We may not complete the acquisition of Cigna Corporation, or Cigna, within the time frame we anticipate or at all, which could have a negative effect on our business or our results of operations. On July 23, 2015, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or Merger Agreement, under which we will acquire all of the outstanding shares of Cigna. The transaction is subject to a number of closing conditions, such as antitrust and other regulatory approvals, which may not be received or may take longer than expected. The transaction is also subject to other risks and uncertainties, such as the possibility that Cigna could receive an unsolicited proposal from a third party, that either we or Cigna may be unable to obtain the shareholder approvals necessary to complete the proposed merger, or that either we or Cigna could exercise our respective termination rights. If the transaction is not consummated within the expected time frame, or at all, it could have a negative effect on our ability to execute on our growth strategy or on our financial performance.Failure to complete the transaction could negatively impact our share price and future business, as well as our financial results.If the transaction is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the transaction, we could be subject to a number of risks, including the following: we may be required to pay Cigna a termination fee of $1,850 or an expense fee of up to $600 if the Merger Agreement is terminated -56-under certain circumstances (as more fully described in the Merger Agreement); and we could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the transaction or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against us to perform our obligations under the Merger Agreement. If the transaction is not completed, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect our business, cash flows and financial condition.We may experience difficulties in integrating Cigna’s business and realizing the expected benefits of the proposed acquisition. The success of the Cigna acquisition, if completed, will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities and growth prospects from combining our businesses with those of Cigna. We may never realize these business opportunities and growth prospects. Integrating operations will be complex and will require significant efforts and expenditures on the part of both us and Cigna. Our management might have its attention diverted while trying to integrate operations and corporate and administrative infrastructures. We might experience increased competition that limits our ability to expand our business, and we might fail to capitalize on expected business opportunities, including retaining current customers. In addition, we and Cigna have operated, and until the completion of the Cigna acquisition will continue to operate, independently. The integration process could result in the loss of key employees of each company (and we and Cigna may not be able to find suitable replacements for such key employees or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms), the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses, tax costs or inefficiencies, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, information technology systems, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, employees or other third parties or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Cigna acquisition and could harm our financial performance. If we are unable to successfully or timely integrate the operations of Cigna’s business into our business, we may be unable to realize the revenue growth, synergies and other anticipated benefits resulting from the proposed acquisition and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Even if we complete the Cigna acquisition, the acquired business may underperform relative to our expectations. Certain of the above risks, as they relate to Cigna as part of the combined company and additional risks associated with the transaction, are described in more detail under the heading “Risk Factors” in the joint proxy statement/prospectus contained in our Registration Statement on Form S-4, as amended (Registration No. 333-207218), including Amendment No. 1 thereto. The Registration Statement was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 26, 2015. Other unknown or unpredictable factors could also have material adverse effects on future results, performance or achievements of Cigna and the combined company.-57-ITEM 2.UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS