ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORSExcept for the updated risk factors below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K:Cigna’s pursuit of litigation in connection with the terminated Merger Agreement and seeking damages against us, together with our own litigation against Cigna, could cause us to incur substantial costs, may present material distractions and, if decided adverse to Anthem, could negatively impact our financial position. As described in Note 11, Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation, on February 14, 2017, Cigna commenced litigation against us in the Delaware Court of Chancery, or Delaware Court, for a declaratory judgment that its purported termination of the Merger Agreement was lawful and seeking damages against us. We promptly filed our own litigation against Cigna seeking to compel Cigna’s specific performance of the Merger Agreement and damages against Cigna. On May 11, 2017, the Delaware Court denied our motion to enjoin Cigna from terminating the Merger Agreement. On May 12, 2017, we delivered to Cigna a notice terminating the Merger Agreement. The litigation in Delaware continues. These lawsuits could result in substantial costs to us, including litigation costs and potential settlement costs. Further, due to the potential significance of the allegations and damages claimed by Cigna, we expect that our officers will spend substantial time focused on the litigation. Our defense against Cigna’s claims, the pursuit of our claims or the settlement, or failure to reach a settlement, for any claims may result in negative media attention, and may adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and market price. -55-We have substantial indebtedness outstanding and may incur additional indebtedness in the future in connection with acquisitions, litigation or otherwise. Such indebtedness could also adversely affect our ability to pursue desirable business opportunities. Our debt service obligations require us to use a portion of our cash flow to pay interest and principal on debt instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to seek extraordinary dividends from our subsidiaries, sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. However, these measures might be unsuccessful or inadequate in permitting us to meet scheduled debt service obligations.We may also incur future debt obligations in connection with acquisitions, litigation or otherwise that might subject us to restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. Our breach or failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreement or other indebtedness. If we default under our credit agreement, the lenders could cease to make further extensions of credit or cause all of our outstanding debt obligations under our credit agreement to become immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If the indebtedness under our notes or our credit agreement or our other indebtedness is accelerated, we may be unable to repay or finance the amounts due.ITEM 2.UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS