Item 1A. Risk Factors  The following should be read in conjunction with and supplements and amends the risk factors that may affect the Company’s business or operations described under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A. of our 2010 annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.  The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular single-issuer or sector of the economy may have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.  The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular single-issuer, industry, group of related industries or geographic sector could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolios and, consequently, on our results of operations and financial position. Events or developments that have a negative impact on any particular single-issuer industry, group of related industries or geographic sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated rather than diversified. At June 30, 2011, approximately 30% of our total portfolio of debt and perpetual securities, on an amortized cost basis, was in the bank and financial institution sector. In addition, at June 30, 2011, with the exception of investments in Japanese government bonds (JGBs) and U.S. Treasury securities, we had four legacy single-issuer investments that exceeded the upper bound of our investment risk exposure limits, which is considered to be 10% of total adjusted capital (TAC) on a statutory accounting basis.  The impact of the earthquake and tsunami natural disaster in March 2011 and related events at the nuclear plant in Japan and their aftermath could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  Aflac Japan’s first quarter 2011 financial results reflected a provision of 3.0 billion yen, or $37 million, for claims related to the earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan on March 11, 2011. These claims were offset by reserve releases and reinsurance of 2.0 billion yen, or $25 million, resulting in a net income statement impact of 1.0 billion yen, or $12 million, for benefits expense in the first quarter. Our financial results in the first quarter of 2011 also reflected .7 billion yen, or $8 million, of operating expenses resulting from the earthquake and tsunami. Our initial claims estimates were based on judgments that considered assumptions and projections which are subject to change to reflect future information. Although the current impact of the natural disaster and its related events has not had a material impact on our financial position or results of operations, actual claims may vary from our estimates and may further negatively impact our financial results.  Our business operations in Japan have continued to be fully functional in the aftermath of the natural disaster. However, the recent events in Japan could impair the recovery of the Japanese economy, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The policy response from the Japanese government to the disaster could involve the issuance of JGBs. Increased borrowing to finance reconstruction of the affected areas coupled with the fiscal challenges already facing Japan could reduce the creditworthiness of JGBs, which account for a significant portion of our investment portfolio. Although questions remain with regard to Japan’s electricity supply as a result of the problems caused by the nuclear plant which was damaged by the natural disaster, we do not expect Aflac’s operations in Japan to be materially impacted.  We will continue to monitor the business and economic conditions in Japan in light of the recent events and will continue to update our assessment of the natural disaster impact on our results of operations.    83    Table of Contents   Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds