Item 1A. Risk Factors  Our risk factor entitled “Compliance with and changes in environmental laws, including proposed climate change laws and regulations, could adversely affect our performance,” as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, is hereby amended and restated as follows.  Compliance with and changes in environmental laws, including proposed climate change laws and regulations, could adversely affect our performance.  The principal environmental risks associated with our operations are emissions into the air and releases into the soil, surface water, or groundwater. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, pollution prevention measures, greenhouse gas emissions, and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned. Because environmental laws and regulations are becoming more stringent and new environmental laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed, such as those relating to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change (e.g., California’s AB-32 “Global Warming Solutions Act,” the U.S. House of Representatives’ “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009,” the U.S. Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works’ “Clean Energy Jobs and American Power Act of 2009,” initiatives and rulemaking following the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s 2009 “Endangerment and Cause or Contribute Findings for Greenhouse Gases Under Section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act”), the level of expenditures required for environmental matters could increase in the future. In particular, under certain permitting activities, the self-executing provisions of the Clean Air Act following the EPA’s endangerment finding and subsequent rule-making, lead to environmental controls review for greenhouse gas emissions beginning January 2, 2011. This and future legislative action and regulatory initiatives could result in changes to operating permits, additional remedial actions, material changes in operations, increased capital expenditures and operating costs, increased costs of the goods we sell, and decreased demand for our products that cannot be assessed with certainty at this time.  68    Table of Contents  Some of the proposed federal “cap-and-trade” legislation would require businesses that emit greenhouse gases to buy emission credits from the government, other businesses, or through an auction process. In addition, refiners would be obligated to purchase emission credits associated with the transportation fuels (gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel) sold and consumed in the United States. As a result of such a program, we would be required to purchase emission credits for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our own operations as well as from the fuels we sell. Although it is not possible at this time to predict the final form of a cap-and-trade bill (or whether such a bill will be passed by Congress), any new federal restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions – including a cap-and-trade program – could result in material increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions for our business, and an increase in the cost of the products we produce, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity.  On June 30, 2010, the EPA formally disapproved the long-standing “flexible permitting” rules that the TCEQ uses as part of the state’s air quality program. Although the program has been in place since 1994, the EPA now claims that the Texas program did not meet several requirements under the federal Clean Air Act. Our Port Arthur, Texas City, Three Rivers, McKee, Corpus Christi East and West refineries have these so-called “flex” permits. Accordingly, the permit status of these facilities has been called into question. Litigation regarding the EPA’s actions is anticipated. We are currently evaluating the impacts of this new regulatory action and cannot estimate the financial or operational impacts on our business. Depending on the final resolution, the EPA’s action could result in material increased compliance costs for us, costly remedial actions, increased capital expenditures, increased operating costs, and additional operating restrictions for our business, resulting in an increase in the cost of the products we produce, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity.  69    Table of Contents     Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds