ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  Our investors should consider the following risks that could affect us and our business. Although we have tried to discuss key factors, our investors need to be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. Investors should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Forward-Looking Statements,” which are included in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.  RISK FACTORS INHERENT IN OUR BUSINESS  Our cash flow depends heavily on the earnings and distributions of ONEOK Partners.  Our partnership interest in ONEOK Partners is one of our largest cash-generating assets. Therefore, our cash flow is heavily dependent upon the ability of ONEOK Partners to make distributions to its partners. A significant decline in ONEOK Partners’ earnings and/or cash distributions would have a corresponding negative impact on us. For information on the risk factors inherent in the business of ONEOK Partners, see the section below entitled “Risk Factors Related to ONEOK Partners’ Business” and the ONEOK Partners 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Some of our nonregulated businesses have a higher level of risk than our regulated businesses.  Some of our nonregulated operations, which include ONEOK Partners’ gathering and processing, natural gas liquids gathering and fractionation, and our marketing and trading businesses, have a higher level of risk than our regulated operations, which include our utility and ONEOK Partners’ natural gas and natural gas liquids transportation businesses. We expect to continue investing in natural gas and natural gas liquids projects and other related projects, some or all of which may involve nonregulated businesses or assets. These projects could involve risks associated with operational factors, such as competition and dependence on certain suppliers and customers, and financial, economic and political factors, such as rapid and significant changes in commodity prices, the cost and availability of capital and counterparty risk, including the inability of a counterparty, customer or supplier to fulfill a contractual obligation.  Our LDCs have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from their customers.  Accounting policies for our LDCs permit certain assets that result from the regulatory process to be recorded on our balance sheet that could not be recorded under GAAP for nonregulated entities. We consider factors such as rate orders from regulators, previous rate orders for substantially similar costs, written approval from the regulator and analysis of recoverability from internal and external legal counsel to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. If we determine future recovery is no longer probable, we would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time.  Our businesses are subject to market and credit risks.  We are exposed to market and credit risks in all of our operations. To minimize the risk of commodity price fluctuations, we periodically enter into derivative transactions to hedge anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, NGLs, crude oil, fuel requirements and firm transportation commitments. Interest-rate swaps are also used to manage interest rate risk. Currency swaps are used to mitigate unexpected changes that may occur in anticipated revenue streams of our Canadian natural gas sales and purchases driven by currency rate fluctuations. However, financial derivative instrument contracts do not eliminate the risks. Specifically, such risks include commodity price changes, market supply shortages, interest rate changes and counterparty default. The impact of these variables could result in our inability to fulfill contractual obligations, significantly higher energy or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales contracts, or increased interest expense.  We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by customers of our Energy Services segment. The customers of our Energy Services segment are predominantly LDCs, industrial customers, natural gas producers and marketers that may experience deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions or financial difficulties that could impact their credit worthiness or ability to pay for our services. Although we attempt to obtain adequate security for these risks, if we fail to adequately assess the credit worthiness of existing or future customers, unanticipated deterioration in their credit worthiness and any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance could adversely impact results of operations for our Energy Services segment. In addition, if any of our Energy Services segment’s customers filed for bankruptcy protection, we may not be able to recover amounts owed, which would negatively impact the results of operations for our Energy Services segment.    15    Table of Contents Increased competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on us.  The natural gas and natural gas liquids industries are expected to remain highly competitive, resulting from deregulation and other initiatives being pursued by the industry and regulatory agencies that allow customers increased options for energy supplies and service. The demand for natural gas and NGLs is primarily a function of commodity prices, including prices for alternative energy sources, customer usage rates, weather, economic conditions and service costs. Our ability to compete also depends on a number of other factors, including competition from other pipelines for our existing load, the efficiency, quality and reliability of the services we provide, and competition for throughput for our gathering systems and plants.  We cannot predict when we will be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can we predict the impact of these changes on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Although we believe our businesses are positioned to compete effectively in the energy market, there are no assurances that this will be true in the future.  We may not be able to successfully make additional strategic acquisitions or integrate businesses we acquire into our operations.  Our ability to successfully make strategic acquisitions and investments will depend on: (i) the extent to which acquisitions and investment opportunities become available; (ii) our success in bidding for the opportunities that do become available; (iii) regulatory approval, if required, of the acquisitions on favorable terms; and (iv) our access to capital, including our ability to use our equity in acquisitions or investments, and the terms upon which we obtain capital. If we are unable to make strategic investments and acquisitions, we may be unable to grow. If we are unable to successfully integrate new businesses into our operations, we could experience increased costs and losses on our investments.  Any reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.  Our long-term senior unsecured debt has been assigned an investment grade rating by S&P of “BBB” (Stable) and Moody’s of “Baa2” (Stable). We will seek to maintain an investment grade rating through prudent capital management and financing structures. However, we cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Specifically, if S&P or Moody’s were to downgrade our long-term rating, particularly below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase, which would adversely affect our financial results, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. Further, if our short-term ratings were to fall below A-2 (capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation is satisfactory) or P-2 (strong ability to repay short-term debt obligations), the current ratings assigned by S&P and Moody’s, respectively, it could significantly limit our access to the commercial paper market. Any such downgrade of our long- or short-term ratings could increase our cost of capital and reduce the availability of capital and, thus, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  A downgrade in our credit ratings below investment grade would negatively affect the operations of our Energy Services segment. If our credit ratings fall below investment grade, ratings triggers and/or adequate assurance clauses in many of our financial and wholesale physical contracts would be in effect. A ratings trigger or adequate assurance clause gives a counterparty the right to suspend or terminate the agreement unless margin thresholds are met. The additional increase in capital required to support our Energy Services segment would negatively impact our ability to compete, as well as our ability to actively manage the risk associated with existing storage and transportation contracts.  We are subject to comprehensive energy regulation by governmental agencies and the recovery of our costs is dependent on regulatory action.  We are subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and municipal utility regulatory agencies, which significantly influences our operating environment and our ability to recover our costs from utility customers. The utility regulatory authorities in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including customer service and the rates that we can charge customers. Federal, state and local agencies also have jurisdiction over many of our other activities, including regulation by the FERC of our storage and interstate pipeline assets. The profitability of our regulated operations is dependent on our ability to pass costs related to providing energy and other commodities through to our customers. The regulatory environment applicable to our regulated businesses could impair our ability to recover costs historically absorbed by our customers.    16    Table of Contents We are unable to predict the impact that the future regulatory activities of these agencies will have on our operating results. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Our business is subject to increased regulatory oversight and potential penalties.  The natural gas industry historically has been heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that a more stringent regulatory approach will not be pursued by the FERC and U.S. Congress, especially in light of previous market power abuse by certain companies engaged in interstate commerce. In response to this issue, U.S. Congress, in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPACT), developed requirements intended to ensure that the energy market is not impacted by the exercise of market power or manipulative conduct. The FERC then adopted the Market Manipulation Rules to implement the authority granted under EPACT. These rules are intended to prohibit fraud and manipulation and are subject to broad interpretation. EPACT also gave the FERC increased penalty authority for violations.  We are subject to environmental regulations that could be difficult and costly to comply with.  We are subject to multiple environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid wastes and hazardous material and substance management. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations, permits and licenses may expose us to fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could be material to the results of operations. If an accidental leak or spill of hazardous materials occurs from our lines or facilities, in the process of transporting natural gas or NGLs, or at any facility that we own, operate or otherwise use, we could be held jointly and severally liable for all resulting liabilities, including investigation and clean-up costs, which could materially affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, emission controls required under the federal Clean Air Act and other similar federal and state laws could require unexpected capital expenditures at our facilities. We cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For further discussion on this topic, see Note K of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We are subject to risks that could limit our access to capital, thereby increasing our costs and adversely affecting our results of operations.  We have grown rapidly in the last several years as a result of acquisitions. Further acquisitions may require additional external capital. If we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, our strategy of enhancing the earnings potential of our existing assets, including through acquisitions of complementary assets or businesses, will be adversely affected. A number of factors could adversely affect our ability to access capital, including: (i) general economic conditions; (ii) capital market conditions; (iii) market prices for natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; (iv) the overall health of the energy and related industries; (v) our ability to maintain our investment-grade credit ratings; and (vi) our capital structure. Much of our business is capital intensive, and achievement of our long-term growth targets is dependent, at least in part, upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. If our ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, our interest costs will likely increase and our financial condition and future results of operations could be significantly harmed.  Our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages by our unionized employees.  As of January 31, 2008, 748 of our 4,555 employees were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements. We are involved periodically in discussions with labor unions representing some of our employees to negotiate or renegotiate labor agreements. We cannot predict the results of these negotiations, including whether any failure to reach new agreements will have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or whether we will be able to reach any agreement with the unions. Any failure to reach agreement on new labor contracts might result in a work stoppage. Any future work stoppage could, depending on the operations and the length of the work stoppage, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.    17    Table of Contents We do not fully hedge against price changes in commodities. This could result in decreased revenues and increased costs, thereby resulting in lower margins and adversely affecting our results of operations.  Certain of our nonregulated businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market price fluctuations of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil. Market risk refers to the risk of loss of cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity energy prices. Our primary exposure arises from fixed-price physical purchase or sale agreements that extend for periods of up to five years, natural gas in storage utilized by our Energy Services segment, commodity prices with respect to ONEOK Partners’ processing contracts and the difference between natural gas and NGLs, as well as the individual NGL products, prices with respect to natural gas and NGL transportation, fractionation and exchange agreements and natural gas and NGLs in storage utilized in our operations. ONEOK Partners and our Energy Services segment are also exposed to the risk of changing prices or the cost of transportation resulting from purchasing natural gas or NGLs at one location and selling it at another (referred to as basis risk). To minimize the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil, we use commodity derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options to manage market risk of existing or anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil. We adhere to policies and procedures that limit our exposure to market risk from open positions and that monitor our market risk exposure. However, we do not fully hedge against commodity price changes, and therefore, we retain some exposure to market risk. Accordingly, any adverse changes to commodity prices could result in decreased revenue and increased costs.  Our Distribution segment uses storage to minimize the volatility of natural gas costs for our customers by storing natural gas in periods of low demand for consumption in peak demand periods. In addition, various natural gas supply contracts allow us the option to convert index-based purchases to fixed prices. Also, we use derivative instruments to hedge the cost of anticipated natural gas purchases during the winter heating months to protect customers from upward volatility in the market price of natural gas. Oklahoma Natural Gas was recently authorized by the OCC to implement a natural gas hedge program as a three-year pilot program, with up to $10 million per year in hedge costs to be recovered from customers. Texas Gas Service also has a natural gas hedging program for certain of its jurisdictions.  Although we control ONEOK Partners, we may have conflicts of interest with ONEOK Partners which could subject us to claims that we have breached our fiduciary duty to ONEOK Partners and its unitholders.  We own 100 percent of the general partner interest and a 43.7 percent limited partner interest in ONEOK Partners. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and ONEOK Partners and its unitholders. In resolving these conflicts, we may favor our own interests and the interests of our affiliates over the interests of ONEOK Partners and its unitholders as long as the resolution does not conflict with the ONEOK Partners’ partnership agreement or our fiduciary duties to ONEOK Partners and its unitholders.  RISK FACTORS RELATED TO ONEOK PARTNERS’ BUSINESS  The volatility of natural gas, crude oil and NGL prices could adversely affect ONEOK Partners’ cash flow.  A significant portion of ONEOK Partners’ revenues are derived from the sale of commodities received as payment for its natural gas gathering and processing services, for transportation and storage of natural gas and NGLs, and for the fractionation of NGLs. As a result, ONEOK Partners is sensitive to commodity price fluctuations. Commodity prices have been and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. High commodity prices and large commodity price spreads may not continue and could drop precipitously in a short period of time. The prices of commodities are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors beyond ONEOK Partners’ control, including the following:      •    relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign energy,      •    market uncertainty,      •    the availability and cost of transportation capacity,      •    the level of consumer product demand,      •    geopolitical conditions impacting supply and demand for natural gas and crude oil,      •    weather conditions,      •    domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes,      •    the price and availability of alternative fuels,      •    speculation in the commodity futures markets,      •    overall domestic and global economic conditions,      •    the price of natural gas, crude oil, NGL and liquefied natural gas imports, and      •    the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures.    18    Table of Contents These external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to reliably estimate future prices of commodities and the impact commodity price fluctuations have on our customers and their need for our services. As commodity prices decline, ONEOK Partners is paid less for its commodities, thereby reducing its cash flow. In addition, production and related volumes could also decline.  ONEOK Partners does not fully hedge against price changes in commodities. This could result in decreased revenues, increased costs and lower margins, thereby adversely affecting the results of ONEOK Partners’ operations.  The ONEOK Partners businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market fluctuations in natural gas, NGLs, and crude oil prices. Market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in commodity energy prices. ONEOK Partners’ primary exposure arises from commodity prices with respect to processing agreements, the difference between NGL and natural gas prices with respect to our natural gas and NGL transportation, fractionation and exchange agreements, and the differential between the individual NGL products and NGLs in storage utilized by its natural gas liquids operations. To manage the risk from market fluctuations in natural gas, NGL and condensate prices, ONEOK Partners uses commodity derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options. However, it does not fully hedge against commodity price changes, and it therefore retains some exposure to market risk. Accordingly, any adverse changes to commodity prices could result in decreased revenue and increased costs for ONEOK Partners.  ONEOK Partners’ use of financial instruments to hedge market risk may result in reduced income.  ONEOK Partners utilizes financial instruments to mitigate its exposure to interest rate and commodity price fluctuations. Hedging instruments that are used to reduce its exposure to interest rate fluctuations could expose it to risk of financial loss where it has contracted for variable-rate swap instruments to hedge fixed-rate instruments and the variable rate exceeds the fixed rate. In addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit ONEOK Partners would otherwise receive if it has contracted for fixed-rate swap agreements to hedge variable-rate instruments and the variable rate falls below the fixed rate. Hedging arrangements that are used to reduce ONEOK Partners’ exposure to commodity price fluctuations may limit the benefit ONEOK Partners would otherwise receive if market prices for natural gas and NGLs exceed the stated price in the hedge instrument for these commodities.  Growing ONEOK Partners’ business by constructing new pipelines and new processing and treating facilities or making modifications to its existing facilities subjects ONEOK Partners to construction risks and risks that adequate natural gas or NGL supplies will not be available upon completion of the facilities.  One of the ways ONEOK Partners intends to grow its business is through the construction of new pipelines and new gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities and through modifications to ONEOK Partners’ existing pipelines and existing gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities. The construction and modification of pipelines and gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed ONEOK Partners’ estimates, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties. Construction projects in ONEOK Partners’ industry may increase demand on labor and material which may in turn impact ONEOK Partners’ costs and schedule. If ONEOK Partners undertakes these projects, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the budgeted cost. Additionally, ONEOK Partners’ revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if ONEOK Partners builds a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and ONEOK Partners will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. ONEOK Partners may have only limited natural gas or NGL supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. Additionally, ONEOK Partners may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. ONEOK Partners may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in ONEOK Partners’ decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas or NGLs to achieve ONEOK Partners’ expected investment return, which could adversely affect ONEOK Partners’ results of operations and financial condition.  ONEOK Partners’ inability to execute growth and development projects and acquire new assets could reduce cash distributions to its unitholders.  ONEOK Partners’ primary business objectives are to generate cash flow sufficient to pay quarterly cash distributions to unitholders and to increase quarterly cash distributions over time. ONEOK Partners’ ability to maintain and grow its distributions to unitholders depends on the growth of its existing businesses and strategic acquisitions. Accordingly, if ONEOK Partners is unable to implement business development opportunities and finance such activities on economically acceptable terms, its future growth will be limited, which could adversely impact the results of operations.    19    Table of Contents ONEOK Partners’ operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, which could adversely affect its business and for which ONEOK Partners may not be adequately insured.  ONEOK Partners’ operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the operation of natural gas and natural gas liquids gathering and transportation pipelines, storage facilities and processing and fractionation plants. Operating risks include, but are not limited to, leaks, pipeline ruptures, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, and the performance of pipeline facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency. Other operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the collision of equipment with ONEOK Partners’ pipeline facilities (for example, this may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near ONEOK Partners’ facilities), and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, floods or other similar events beyond ONEOK Partners’ control. It is also possible that ONEOK Partners’ infrastructure facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism. A casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. Liabilities incurred, and interruptions to the operation of ONEOK Partners’ pipeline caused by such an event, could reduce revenues generated by ONEOK Partners and increase expenses, thereby impairing ONEOK Partners’ ability to meet its obligations. Insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost.  If the level of drilling and production in the Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions substantially declines, ONEOK Partners’ volumes and revenue could decline.  ONEOK Partners’ ability to maintain or expand its businesses depends largely on the level of drilling and production in the Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions. Drilling and production are impacted by factors beyond ONEOK Partners’ control, including:      •    demand for natural gas and refinery-grade crude oil;      •    producers’ desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in a timely and economic manner,      •    natural gas field characteristics and production performance;      •    surface access and infrastructure issues; and      •    capacity constraints on natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines from the producing areas and ONEOK Partners’ facilities.  In addition, drilling and production are impacted by environmental regulations governing water discharge. If the level of drilling and production in any of these regions substantially declines, ONEOK Partners’ volumes and revenue could be reduced.  If production from the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin remains flat or declines and demand for natural gas from the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin is greater in market areas other than the Midwestern United States, demand for ONEOK Partners’ interstate gas transportation services could significantly decrease.  ONEOK Partners depends on natural gas supply from the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin because ONEOK Partners’ interstate pipelines primarily transport Canadian natural gas from the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin to the Midwestern U.S. market area. If demand for natural gas increases in Canada or other markets not served by ONEOK Partners’ interstate pipelines and production remains flat or declines, demand for transportation service on ONEOK Partners’ interstate natural gas pipelines could decrease significantly, which could adversely impact ONEOK Partners’ results of operations.  Pipeline integrity programs and repairs may impose significant costs and liabilities.  In December 2003, the United States Department of Transportation issued a final rule requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for intrastate and interstate natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines located near high consequence areas, where a leak or rupture could do the most harm. The final rule requires operators to perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; improve data collection, integration and analysis; repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and implement preventive and mitigating actions. The final rule incorporates the requirements of the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 and became effective in January 2004. The results of these testing programs could cause ONEOK Partners to incur significant capital and operating expenditures to make repairs or take remediation, preventive or mitigating actions that are determined to be necessary.    20    Table of Contents ONEOK Partners’ regulated natural gas pipelines’ transportation rates are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal and state regulators.  ONEOK Partners’ regulated natural gas pipelines are subject to extensive regulation by the FERC and state regulatory agencies, which regulate most aspects of ONEOK Partners’ pipeline business, including ONEOK Partners’ transportation rates. Under the Natural Gas Act, interstate transportation rates must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. Under Northern Border Pipeline’s 2006 rate case settlement, there is a three-year moratorium preventing Northern Border Pipeline from filing rate cases and the participants from challenging Northern Border Pipeline’s rates, and a requirement that Northern Border Pipeline file a rate case within six years.  ONEOK Partners’ regulated pipeline companies have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from its customers.  Accounting policies for FERC-regulated companies permit certain assets that result from the regulated ratemaking process to be recorded on the ONEOK Partners balance sheet that could not be recorded under GAAP for nonregulated entities. ONEOK Partners considers factors such as regulatory changes and the impact of competition to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. If ONEOK Partners determines future recovery is no longer probable, ONEOK Partners would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time.  ONEOK Partners’ operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose it to significant costs and liabilities.  The risk of incurring substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in ONEOK Partners’ business. ONEOK Partners’ operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into, or otherwise relating to the protection of, the environment. Examples of these laws include:      •    the federal Clean Air Act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions;      •    the federal Clean Water Act and analogous state laws that regulate discharge of wastewaters from ONEOK Partners’ facilities to state and federal waters;      •    the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by ONEOK Partners or locations to which ONEOK Partners has sent waste for disposal; and      •    the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from ONEOK Partners’ facilities.  Various governmental authorities, including the United States EPA, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. Violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas.  There is an inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in ONEOK Partners’ business due to its handling of the products it gathers, transports and processes, air emissions related to its operations, historical industry operations and waste disposal practices, some of which may be material. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which ONEOK Partners’ pipeline systems pass, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from ONEOK Partners’ operations. Some sites ONEOK Partners operates are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing operations, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ONEOK Partners’ sites. In addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could significantly increase ONEOK Partners’ compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary, some of which may be material. Additional information is included under Item 1, Business under “Environmental and Safety Matters” and in Note K of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  ONEOK Partners’ insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against ONEOK Partners. ONEOK Partners’ business may be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. New environmental regulations might also adversely affect ONEOK Partners’ products and activities, and federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, all of which could materially affect ONEOK Partners’ profitability.    21    Table of Contents In the competition for customers, ONEOK Partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted transportation capacity on its natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas and natural gas liquids pipeline businesses compete with other pipelines for natural gas and natural gas liquids supplies delivered to the markets it serves. As a result of competition, ONEOK Partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on its pipelines, which could adversely impact ONEOK Partners’ results of operations.  ONEOK Partners is exposed to the credit risk of its customers, and its credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk.  ONEOK Partners is subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by ONEOK Partners’ customers. ONEOK Partners’ customers are predominantly producers, NGL end users and marketers that may experience deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions or financial difficulties that could impact their credit worthiness or ability to pay ONEOK Partners for its services. ONEOK Partners assesses the credit worthiness of its customers and obtains security as it deems appropriate. If ONEOK Partners fails to adequately assess the credit worthiness of existing or future customers, unanticipated deterioration in their credit worthiness and any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance could adversely impact ONEOK Partners’ results of operations. In addition, if any of ONEOK Partners’ customers file for bankruptcy protection, ONEOK Partners’ results of operations may be negatively impacted.  Any reduction in the ONEOK Partners credit ratings could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. ONEOK Partners’ senior unsecured long-term debt has been assigned an investment grade rating by Moody’s of “Baa2” (Stable) and by S&P of “BBB” (Stable). ONEOK Partners will seek to maintain an investment grade rating through prudent capital management and financing structures. However, ONEOK Partners cannot provide assurance that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Specifically, if Moody’s or S&P were to downgrade ONEOK Partners’ long-term debt rating, particularly below investment grade, its borrowing costs would increase, which would adversely affect its financial results, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. Ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold ONEOK Partners’ securities. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  A downgrade of ONEOK Partners’ credit rating may require ONEOK Partners to offer to repurchase certain of its senior notes or may impair its ability to access capital.  ONEOK Partners could be required to offer to repurchase certain of its senior notes due 2010 and 2011 at par value, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, if Moody’s or S&P rates those senior notes below investment grade (Baa3 for Moody’s and BBB- for S&P). Further, the indenture governing ONEOK Partners’ senior notes due 2010 and 2011 includes an event of default upon acceleration of other indebtedness of $25 million or more and the indenture governing ONEOK Partners’ senior notes due 2012, 2016, 2036 and 2037 includes an event of default upon the acceleration of other indebtedness of $100 million or more that would be triggered by such an offer to repurchase. Such an event of default would entitle the trustee or the holders of 25 percent in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding senior notes due 2010, 2011, 2012, 2016, 2036 and 2037 to declare those notes immediately due and payable in full. ONEOK Partners may not have sufficient cash on hand to repurchase and repay any accelerated senior notes, which may cause ONEOK Partners to borrow money under its credit facilities or seek alternative financing sources to finance the repayments and repurchases. ONEOK Partners could also face difficulties accessing capital or its borrowing costs could increase, impacting its ability to obtain financing for acquisitions or capital expenditures, to refinance indebtedness and to fulfill its debt obligations.  ONEOK Partners has adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of its limited partner units.  When ONEOK Partners issues additional units or engages in certain other transactions, ONEOK Partners determines the fair market value of its assets and allocates any unrealized gain or loss attributable to its assets to the capital accounts of its unitholders and its general partner. ONEOK Partners’ methodology may be viewed as understating the value of its assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under ONEOK Partners’ current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated     22    Table of Contents  to ONEOK Partners’ tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to ONEOK Partners’ intangible assets. The IRS may challenge ONEOK Partners’ valuation methods, or ONEOK Partners’ allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to ONEOK Partners’ tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of ONEOK Partners’ unitholders.  A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to ONEOK Partners’ unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from ONEOK Partners unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to ONEOK Partners unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.  ONEOK Partners’ treatment of a purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits as the seller could be challenged, resulting in a reduction in value of the common units.  Because ONEOK Partners cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, ONEOK Partners is required to maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of these units in the hands of the purchasers and sellers of these units. ONEOK Partners does so by adopting certain depreciation conventions that do not conform to all aspects of the United States Treasury regulations. An IRS challenge to these conventions could adversely affect the tax benefits to a unitholder of ownership of the common units and could have a negative impact on their value or result in audit adjustments to ONEOK Partners unitholders’ tax returns.       ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS