Item  1A. Risk Factors  Changes in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition  The information on risk factors presented in response to this item is that of People’s Bank, which will become the primary operating subsidiary of People’s United Financial, Inc. upon completion of the conversion. The risk factors applicable to People’s Bank for periods prior to the conversion are expected to be the same as the risk factors applicable to People’s United Financial, Inc. following the conversion.  People’s Bank makes most of its earnings based on the difference between interest it earns compared to interest it pays. This difference is called the “interest spread.” People’s Bank earns interest on loans and to a much lesser extent on securities and short-term investments. These are called “interest-earning assets.” People’s Bank pays interest on some forms of deposits and on funds it borrows from other sources. These are called “interest-bearing liabilities.”  People’s Bank interest spread can change depending on when interest rates earned on interest-earning assets change, compared to when interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities change. Some rate changes occur while these assets or liabilities are still on People’s Bank’s books. Other rate changes occur when these assets or liabilities mature and are replaced by new interest-earning assets or interest-bearing liabilities at different rates. It may be difficult to replace interest-earning assets quickly, since customers may not want to borrow money when interest rates are high, or People’s Bank may not be able to make loans that meet its lending standards. People’s Bank interest spread may also change based on the mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.  People’s Bank interest spread may be lower if the timing of interest rate changes is different for its interest-earning assets compared to its interest-bearing liabilities. For example, if interest rates go down, People’s Bank earn less on its interest-earning assets while it is still locked in to paying higher rates on its interest-bearing liabilities. On the other hand, if interest rates go up, People’s Bank might have to pay more on its interest-bearing liabilities while it is still locked in to receiving lower rates on its interest-earning assets.    12    Table of Contents People’s Bank manages this risk using many different techniques. If it is not successful in managing this risk, People’s Bank will probably be less profitable.  Changes in Our Asset Quality Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition  Asset quality measures the performance of a borrower in repaying a loan, with interest, on time. It is unlikely that our asset quality will stay as strong as it has been for the past several years, particularly if the economy deteriorates.  We May Not Be Able to Successfully Implement Our Plans for Growth  Since our conversion to the mutual holding company form of organization in 1988, we have experienced significant growth. During 2006, People’s Bank opened two traditional branches and four new Stop & Shop branches. People’s Bank also plans to expand into New York State by opening at least 15 new traditional branches in Westchester County over the next three years. Seven of these branches are expected to be open by the end of 2007. People’s Bank also plans to continue its branch expansion in Connecticut by opening new traditional and Stop & Shop branches. In addition, we will consider expansion opportunities such as the acquisition of branches and other financial institutions, although we do not have any current understandings, agreements or arrangements for expansion by the acquisition of any branches or other financial institutions. Significant changes in interest rates or the competition we face may make it difficult to attract the level of customer deposits needed to fund our internal growth at projected levels. In addition, People’s Bank may have difficulty finding suitable sites for de novo branches. Our expansion plans may result in People’s Bank opening branches in geographic markets in which it has no previous experience. Our ability to grow effectively in those markets will be dependent on our ability to identify and retain personnel familiar with the new markets. Any future acquisitions of branches or of other financial institutions would present many challenges associated with integrating merged institutions and expanding operations. Our profitability may suffer if we do not continue to experience the type of growth that we have in the past, if we do not adequately and profitably implement our plans for growth or if we incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support our growth.  The Success of Our Stop & Shop Branches Depends on the Success of the Stop & Shop Brand  One element of our strategy is to focus on increasing deposits by providing a wide range of convenient services to our customers. An integral component of this strategy is People’s Bank supermarket banking initiative, pursuant to which, as of December 31, 2006, People’s Bank has established 74 full-service Stop & Shop branches that provide customers with the convenience of seven-day-a-week banking. At December 31, 2006, 47% of People’s Bank branches were located in Stop & Shop supermarkets.  People’s Bank currently has exclusive branching rights in Stop & Shop supermarkets in the state of Connecticut, in the form of a license agreement between The Stop & Shop Supermarket Company and People’s Bank, which provides for the leasing of space to People’s Bank within Stop & Shop supermarkets for branch use. Under the terms of the license agreement, People’s Bank generally is required to open a branch in each new Connecticut Stop & Shop supermarket (up to a maximum of 120 supermarkets) that has either (1) a total square footage of greater than 45,000 square feet or (2) if less than 45,000 square feet in size, the store has projected customers of at least 15,000 per week. People’s Bank has the exclusive right to branch in these supermarkets until 2012, provided that People’s Bank does not default on its obligations under the licensing agreement. People’s Bank has the option to extend the license agreement until 2022.  Stop & Shop is currently the leading grocery store in Connecticut, with nearly twice the market share of its closest competitor, according to Modern Grocer. The success of People’s Bank supermarket branches is dependent, in part, on the success of the Stop & Shop supermarkets in which they are located. A drop in Stop & Shop’s market share, a decrease in the number of Stop & Shop locations or customers, or a decline in the overall quality of Stop & Shop supermarkets could result in decreased business for the Stop & Shop branches, in the form of fewer loan originations, lower deposit generation and fewer overall branch transactions, and could influence market perception of People’s Bank Stop & Shop supermarket branches as convenient banking locations. Under the terms of the license agreement, People’s Bank has the obligation to open branches in new Connecticut Stop & Shop locations through 2012, even if Stop & Shop’s market share declines or the value of the Stop & Shop brand is diminished.  In addition, People’s Bank may not be able to renew or renegotiate the license agreement with Stop & Shop beyond 2022. If renewal or renegotiation of the license agreement were unsuccessful, People’s would be forced to find new locations for and relocate the Stop & Shop branches, or to close those branches and transfer the affected customer accounts to other People’s Bank branches, either of which would involve significant expense and the possible loss of customer relationships.    13    Table of Contents We Depend on Our Executive Officers and Key Personnel to Continue the Implementation of Our Long-Term Business Strategy and Could Be Harmed by the Loss of Their Services  We believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. Although People’s Bank has an employment agreement with its president and chief executive officer, the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop and execute our business strategy.  Our Business Is Affected by the International, National, Regional and Local Economy Generally, and the Geographic Concentration of Our Loan Portfolio and Lending Activities Makes Us Vulnerable to a Downturn in the Local Economy  Changes in international, national, regional and local economic conditions affect our business. If economic conditions change significantly or quickly, our business operations could suffer, and we could become weaker financially as a result.  At December 31, 2006, approximately 76% of People’s Bank’s loans by outstanding principal amount were to people and businesses located in the state of Connecticut, or involved property located here. All of People’s Bank’s branches are currently in Connecticut. How well we perform depends very much on the health of the Connecticut economy, and we expect that to remain true for the foreseeable future.  Last year, Connecticut residents, on average, earned more than the residents of any other state in the country. Our state unemployment rate for December 2006 was 4.2%, a bit lower than the national rate of 4.5%. A very low unemployment rate usually means that businesses have a hard time finding qualified workers, and will have to pay them more if it can find them. Businesses that can not find workers or that have to pay higher wages might decide not to stay in Connecticut, or to send work outside the state. Someone deciding where to locate a new business or to expand an existing business might decide to go somewhere outside Connecticut.  If the general economic situation deteriorates, or there are negative trends in the stock market, the Connecticut economy could suffer more than the national economy. This would be especially likely in Fairfield County, where People’s Bank has many of its branches and where many of its customers reside, because of the large number of Fairfield County residents who are professionals in the financial services industry.  People’s Bank could experience losses in its real estate-related loan portfolios if the prices for housing and other kinds of real estate decreased significantly in Connecticut. Even though Connecticut (especially Fairfield County) has some of the highest housing prices in the country, property values can decrease. This has happened before (as recently as the early 1990s), and can happen again.  In Response to Competitive Pressures, Our Costs Could Increase if We Were Required to Increase Our Service and Convenience Levels or Our Margins Could Decrease if We Were Required to Increase Deposit Rates or Lower Interest Rates on Loans  People’s Bank faces significant competition for deposits and loans. In deciding where to deposit their money, many people look first at the interest rate they will earn. They also might think about whether the bank offers other kinds of services they might need and, if they have ever been a customer of the bank before, what their experience was like. People also like convenience, so the number of offices and banking hours may be important. Some people also think that on-line services are important.  People’s Bank competes with other banks, credit unions, brokerage firms and money market funds for deposits. Some people may decide to buy bonds or similar kinds of investments issued by companies or by the U.S., state and local governments and agencies, instead of opening a deposit account.  In making decisions about loans, many people look first at the interest rate they will have to pay. They also think about any extra fees they might have to pay in order to get the loan. Some people also think about whether the     14    Table of Contents  bank offers other kinds of services they might need and, if they have ever been a customer of the bank before, what their experience was like. Many business loans are more complicated because there may not be a standard kind of loan that meets all of the customer’s needs. Business borrowers look at many different factors that are not all financial in nature. Examples include the kind and amount of security the lender wants and other terms of the loan that do not involve the interest rate.  People’s Bank competes with other banks, credit unions, credit card issuers, finance companies, mortgage lenders and mortgage brokers for loans. Insurance companies also compete with People’s Bank for some kinds of commercial loans.  Many of People’s Bank’s competitors have branches in the same market area as it does. Some of them are much larger than it is. Connecticut, and especially Fairfield County, is an attractive banking market. Many locally-based banks have been acquired by large regional and national companies in the last several years. We expect this trend to continue. This means that there are not as many competitors in our market as there used to be, but the ones that are left are usually bigger and have more resources than the ones they acquired.  People’s Bank also has competition from outside its own market area. A bank that does not have any branches in Connecticut can still have customers here by providing banking services on-line. It costs money to set up and maintain a branch system. Banks that do not spend as much money as People’s Bank does on branches might be more profitable than it is, even if they pay higher interest on deposits and charge lower interest on loans.  Changes in Federal and State Regulation Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition  The banking business is heavily regulated by the federal and state governments. Banking laws and rules are for the most part intended to protect depositors, not stockholders.  Banking laws and rules can change at any time. The government agencies responsible for supervising People’s Bank business can also change the way they interpret these laws and rules, even if the rules themselves do not change. We need to make sure that our business activities comply with any changes in these rules or the interpretation of the rules. We might be less profitable if we have to change the way we conduct business in order to comply. Our business might suffer in other ways as well.  Changes in state and federal tax laws can make our business less profitable. Changes in the accounting rules we are required to follow may also make us less profitable. Changes in the government’s economic and monetary policies may hurt our ability to compete for deposits and loans. Changes in these policies can also make it more expensive for us to do business.  The government agencies responsible for supervising our business can take drastic action if they think we are not conducting business safely or are too weak financially. They can force People’s Bank to hold additional capital, pay higher deposit insurance premiums, stop paying dividends, stop making certain kinds of loans or stop offering certain kinds of deposits. If the agencies took any of these steps or other similar steps, it would probably make our business less profitable.  The Office of Thrift Supervision letter dated July 3, 2006 approving, among other things, People’s Bank conversion from a Connecticut savings bank to a federal savings bank, granted People’s Bank (1) a phase-in period of three years from the date of its conversion to a federal savings bank, August 18, 2006, to comply with the Home Owners’ Loan Act’s commercial loan limits, with the ability to seek an additional one-year extension if necessary; and (2) an exception from the Qualified Thrift Lender test for a period of four years from the date of conversion. The manner in which the Office of Thrift Supervision interprets or applies its phase-in period can also make it more expensive for us to do business, make our business less profitable and limit our strategic flexibility.  If People’s Bank’s Allowance for Loan Losses Is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease  People’s Bank is exposed to the risk that customers will not be able to repay their loans. This risk is inherent in the lending business. There is also the risk that the customer’s collateral will not be sufficient to cover the balance of their loan, as underlying collateral values fluctuate with market changes. People’s Bank records an allowance for     15    Table of Contents  loan losses to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses is established through provisions for loan losses charged to income. Losses on loans, including impaired loans, are charged to provision expense or to the allowance for loan losses when all or a portion of a loan is deemed to be uncollectible. Recoveries of loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance for loan losses when realized.  People’s Bank maintains the allowance for loan losses at a level that it believes is adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, based on a quarterly evaluation of a variety of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to: its historical loan loss experience and recent trends in that experience; risk ratings assigned by lending personnel to commercial real estate finance, commercial and People’s Capital and Leasing Company loans, and the results of ongoing reviews of those ratings by its independent loan review function; an evaluation of non-performing loans and related collateral values; the probability of loss in view of geographic and industry concentrations and other portfolio risk characteristics; the present financial condition of borrowers; and current economic conditions. While People’s Bank seeks to use the best available information to make these evaluations, and at December 31, 2006, management believed that the allowance for loan losses was adequate to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, it is possible that borrower defaults could exceed the current estimates for loan losses, which would reduce earnings. In addition, future increases to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary based on changes in economic conditions, results of regulatory examinations, further information obtained regarding known problem loans, increasing charge-offs of existing problem loans, or the identification of additional problem loans and other factors, which would also reduce earnings.      Item 1 B. Unresolved Staff Comments