ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.  The following information contains specific risks that could potentially impact the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results. The Company may be subject to additional risks that are not currently known to the Company or those which the Company deems immaterial that may also impact its business operations.  The Company’s inability to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals could have a negative impact on the Company’s future operating results.  The Company maintains close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. The Company continues to place emphasis on the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand its existing product lines. If the Company is unable to maintain these good relationships, its ability to market and sell new and improved products could decrease and future operating results could be unfavorably affected.  The Company’s inability to continue to hire and retain key employees could have a negative impact on the Company’s future operating results.  The talent and drive of the Company’s employees are key factors in the success of its business. The Company’s sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. If the Company is unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force, it may not be able to meet its strategic business objectives.    13    Table of Contents Stricter pricing guidelines for the medical technology industry could have a negative impact on the Company’s future operating results.  Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where the Company does business. The Company could experience a negative impact on its operating results due to increased pricing pressure in the United States, Japan and certain other markets. Governments, hospitals and other third party payers could reduce the amount of approved reimbursements for the Company’s products. Reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage or other cost-containment measures could unfavorably affect the Company’s future operating results.  The Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted by changes in its excess and obsolete inventory reserves.  The Company maintains reserves for excess and obsolete inventory resulting from the potential inability to sell its products at prices in excess of current carrying costs. The markets in which the Company operates are highly competitive, and new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis. Such marketplace changes may cause some of the Company’s products to become obsolete. The Company makes estimates regarding the future recoverability of the costs of these products and records a provision for excess and obsolete inventories based on historical experience, expiration of sterilization dates and expected future trends. If actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable than projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which could unfavorably affect future operating results.  The Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted if it is unable to capitalize on research and development spending.  The Company has spent a significant amount of time and resources on research and development projects in order to develop and validate new and innovative products. The Company believes these projects will result in the commercialization of new products and will create additional future sales. However, factors including regulatory delays, safety concerns or patent disputes could delay the introduction or marketing of new products. Additionally, unanticipated issues may arise in connection with current and future clinical studies that could delay or terminate a product’s development prior to regulatory approval. The Company may experience an unfavorable impact on its operating results if it is unable to capitalize on those efforts by attaining the proper FDA approval or to successfully market new products.  The Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted by future changes in the allocation of income to each of the income tax jurisdictions in which the Company operates.  The Company operates in multiple income tax jurisdictions both inside and outside the United States. Income tax authorities in these jurisdictions regularly perform audits of the Company’s income tax filings. Accordingly, management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. Income tax audits associated with the allocation of this income and other complex issues, including inventory transfer pricing and cost sharing and product royalty arrangements, may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in significant income tax adjustments. If changes to the income allocation are required between jurisdictions with different income tax rates, such adjustments could have a material unfavorable impact on the Company’s income tax expense and net earnings in future periods.    14    Table of Contents The Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted by future product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions, regulatory compliance or legal settlements.  The Company is a defendant in various proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the normal course of business, including product liability and other matters. In addition, the Company may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether it is found to be liable. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable with assurance. To partially mitigate losses arising from unfavorable outcomes in such matters, the Company purchases third-party insurance coverage subject to certain deductibles and loss limitations. While the Company believes its current insurance coverage is adequate to mitigate losses arising from such matters, its future operating results may be unfavorably impacted by any settlement payments or losses beyond the amounts of insurance carried. In addition, such product liability matters may negatively impact the Company’s ability to obtain cost-effective third-party insurance coverage in future periods.  Substantially all of the Company’s products are subject to regulation by the FDA and other governmental authorities both inside and outside of the United States. If the Company were to fail to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements, it may be subject to a range of sanctions including, but not limited to, warning letters, monetary fines, product recalls and the suspension of product manufacturing. Such sanctions, if implemented, could have a material, unfavorable impact on the Company’s future operating results.  The Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted by economic, political or other developments in countries in which the Company does business.  The Company distributes its products throughout the world. As a result, the Company’s future operating results could be negatively impacted by unstable economic, political and social conditions, including but not limited to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, political instability or changes in the interpretation or creation of laws and regulations, including tax laws and regulations, in each of the countries where the Company conducts business, including the United States.    15    Table of Contents   ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.