Item 1A. Risk Factors  Higher or lower than expected prepayments of loans could change the Company’s expected servicing revenue or payments the Company receives as the holder of the Residual Interests of securitization trusts holding student loans or cause the bonds issued by the securitization trust to be paid at a different speed than originally anticipated. These factors could materially alter our liquidity, income or the value of our Residual Interests.  Prepayment rates and levels are subject to many factors. FFELP Loans and Private Education Loans may be voluntarily prepaid without penalty by the borrower or, in the case of FFELP Loans, consolidated with the borrower’s other education loans through refinancing. FFELP Loans may also be repaid after default by the Guarantors of FFELP Loans. FFELP Loan borrowers may also be    103    Table of Contents  eligible for various existing income-based repayment programs under which borrowers can qualify for reduced or zero monthly payment or even debt forgiveness after a certain number of years of repayment.  Future initiatives by ED or by Congress to encourage or force consolidation, create additional income-based repayment or debt forgiveness programs or establish other factors affecting borrowers’ repayment of their loans, could also affect prepayments on education loans.  While fluctuations in prepayment levels is to be expected, extraordinary or extended increases or decreases in prepayment levels could materially affect our liquidity, interest income, net interest margin and the value of those Residual Interests. When education loans within a securitization trust amortize faster than originally contracted, the trust’s pool balance may decline at a rate faster than the prepayment rate assumed when the trust’s bonds were originally issued. If the trust’s pool balance declines faster than originally anticipated, in most of our securitization structures, the bonds issued by that trust will also be repaid faster than originally anticipated. In these cases, the Company’s interest income decreases and the value of any Residual Interest in the trust may decline.  Conversely, when education loans within a securitization trust amortize more slowly than originally contracted, the trust’s pool balance may decline more slowly than the prepayment rate assumed when the trust’s bonds were originally issued and the bonds may be repaid more slowly than originally anticipated. In these cases, the Company’s interest income increases and the value of any Residual Interest in the trust may increase. In addition, if the prepayment rate is especially slow and certain rights of the sellers or the servicer are not exercised or are insufficient or other action is not taken to counter the slower prepayment rate, the trust’s bonds may not be repaid by their legal final maturity date(s), which could result in an event of default under the underlying securitization agreements.  In addition, rating agencies may change their ratings on (or their ratings methodology for) the bonds issued by a securitization trust, possibly raising or lowering their ratings, based upon these prepayment rates and their perception of the risk posed by those rates to the timing of the trust cash flows. Negative ratings changes could impact our liquidity, our access to the securitization markets, and our net interest margin, and could raise or lower the value of our Residual Interests of our future securitization transactions.      Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds