Item 1A: Risk Factors in the Firm’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.    Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Firm speak only as of the date they are made, and JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-looking statements were made. The reader should, however, consult any further disclosures of a forward-looking nature the Firm may make in any subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, or Current Reports on Form 8-K.     Item 3 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  For a discussion of the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, see the Market Risk Management section of the Management’s discussion and analysis on pages 81–84 of this Form 10-Q.     Item 4 Controls and Procedures  As of the end of the period covered by this report, an evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of the Firm’s management, including its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based on that evaluation, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures were effective. See Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 for the Certification statements issued by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Financial Officer.  The Firm is committed to maintaining high standards of internal control over financial reporting. Nevertheless, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.     Part II Other Information     Item 1 Legal Proceedings  For information that updates the disclosures set forth under Part 1, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” in the Firm’s 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, see the discussion of the Firm’s material litigation in Note 23 on pages 160–169 of this Form 10-Q.     Item 1A Risk Factors  For a discussion of certain risk factors affecting the Firm, see Part I, Item 1A: Risk Factors, on pages 5–12 of JPMorgan Chase’s 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K; and Forward-Looking Statements on pages 180–181 of this Form 10-Q.     Item 2 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds