Item 1A. Risk Factors  The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2014 includes a detailed discussion of the Company’s risk factors. Other than the item noted below, there have been no material changes during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 to the risk factors that were included in the Form 10-K.Changes in tax laws or income tax rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and the ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner. The Company believes that under current law, it should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. However, changes to the inversion rules in section 7874 of the Code, or the IRS Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, or other IRS guidance, could adversely affect the Company's status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, and any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application to the Company, Perrigo Company, and/or their respective stockholders, shareholders and affiliates. In addition, recent legislative proposals have aimed to expand the scope of U.S. corporate tax residence, and such legislation, if passed, could have an adverse effect on the Company.Moreover, the Office of the Revenue Commissioners, U.S. Congress, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and other Government agencies in jurisdictions where the Company and its affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. One example is in the area of "base erosion and profit shifting", where payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. As a result, the tax laws in the U.S. and other countries in which the Company and its affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect the Company.A number of factors may adversely impact the Company's future effective tax rates, such as income tax rate changes by governments; the jurisdictions in which the Company's profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the valuation of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; adjustments to the Company's interpretation of transfer pricing standards, changes in available tax credits, grants and other incentives; changes in stock-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws (e.g., proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform); changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; expiration or the inability to renew tax rulings or tax holiday incentives; and the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings with respect to which the Company has not previously provided for U.S. taxes. A change in the Company's effective tax rate due to any of these factors may adversely impact the Company's future results from operations. Also, changes in tax laws could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable and that we prepare our tax filings in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audit, and any related litigation, could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on operating results and/or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made. In addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties, and/or interest assessments. On August 27, 2014, the Company received a statutory notice of deficiency from the IRS related to fiscal years 2009 and 2010. The incremental tax liability asserted by the IRS for these periods is approximately $43.0 million, exclusive of interest and penalties. The IRS has asserted various positions, including transfer pricing. As the Company disagrees with positions asserted by the IRS, it intends to contest the IRS’s positions through applicable procedures in either the U.S. Tax Court or U.S. Federal court, the latter of which would require the Company to pay the asserted liability, plus interest and penalties, prior to initiating any refund litigation. The unfavorable resolution of this matter could have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements in future periods. 44Table of ContentsItem 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds