Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2014 includes a detailed discussion of the Company’s risk factors. Other than the item noted below, there have been no material changes during fiscal 2015 to the risk factors that were included in the Form 10-K. Risks Related to the Pending Omega Acquisition (the "Acquisition")The Company and Omega must obtain required approvals and governmental and regulatory consents to consummate the Acquisition, which, if delayed, not granted or granted with unacceptable conditions, could delay or jeopardize the consummation of the Acquisition, result in additional expenditures of money and resources and/or reduce the anticipated benefits.The Acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions. These closing conditions include, among others, the receipt of the relevant approvals under the antitrust laws of certain foreign countries under which filings or approvals are or may be required. The Share Purchase Agreement contemplates applicable approvals, including from the competition authorities of Germany, Poland, the United Kingdom (unless the Acquisition is referred to the European Commission in accordance with Article 4(5) of Council Regulation (EC) No. 139/2004 on the control of concentrations between undertakings (the “EUMR”) or Article 22 of the EUMR), as well as the competition authorities of Russia and Ukraine. In addition, the Share Purchase Agreement requires the Company to accept all conditions, obligations or other requirements imposed or contained in any final decision of these competition authorities with a view to removing any impediment to the related condition in the Share Purchase Agreement. The Company cannot predict whether these competition authorities will approve the Acquisition or whether they may impose any conditions to approval. There can be no assurance the Acquisition will be consummated. The Share Purchase Agreement contains provisions that could require the Company to pay Omega a termination fee.Under the Share Purchase Agreement, if the Company is unable to satisfy certain closing conditions in connection with the Acquisition, Omega has the right to terminate the Share Purchase Agreement, and the Company could be required to pay Omega a termination fee equal to approximately €100 million.While the Acquisition is pending, the Company and Omega will be subject to business uncertainties that could adversely affect their businesses.Uncertainty about the effect of the Acquisition on employees, customers and suppliers may have a material adverse effect on the Company and Omega. These uncertainties may impair the Company's and Omega’s ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the Acquisition is consummated and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers and others who deal with the Company and Omega to seek to change existing business relationships with the Company and Omega. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the Acquisition because employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the Company. If, despite the Company's and Omega’s retention efforts, key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with Perrigo, the business could be seriously harmed.The Company might not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition or those benefits could take longer to realize than expected. The Company may also encounter significant unexpected difficulties in integrating the two businesses. The Company's ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition will depend, to a large extent, on its ability to integrate the Perrigo and Omega businesses. The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, the Company has been, and will be required to  43Table of Contentsdevote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of Perrigo and Omega. The integration process could disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, could preclude realization of the full benefits expected by the Company. The failure to meet the challenges involved in the integration process could interrupt, or cause a loss of momentum in, the Company's business and could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations.In addition, the overall integration of the businesses could result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management’s attention. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: •difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects;•difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; and•difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complexcompany.Many of these factors will be outside of the Company's control, and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially impact the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if the business operations of Perrigo and Omega are integrated successfully, the Company might not realize the full benefits of the Acquisition, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that is expected. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Or, additional unanticipated costs could be incurred in the integration of the businesses. All of these factors could cause dilution to the Company's earnings per ordinary share, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the Acquisition, and negatively impact the price of the Company's ordinary shares. As a result, the combination of Perrigo's businesses with Omega’s businesses may not result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the Acquisition.The Company's leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect the business. The Company's long-term indebtedness as of December 27, 2014 was $4.4 billion, which includes $2.5 billion raised to finance the Acquisition. In connection with the Acquisition, the Company will assume €1.1 billion principal amount of existing Omega debt, which the Company plans to repay or redeem following the closing of the Acquisition. The degree to which the Company will be leveraged following the Acquisition could have important consequences for the Company, including, but not limited to:•increasing the Company's vulnerability to, and reducing its flexibility to respond to, general adverse economic and industry conditions;•requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of the Company's cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, indebtedness, thereby reducing cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, joint ventures, product research and development or other general corporate purposes;•limiting the Company's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the competitive environment and the industry in which the Company operates;•placing the Company at a competitive disadvantage to the extent that its competitors are not as highly leveraged; and•limiting the Company's ability to borrow additional funds and increasing the cost of any such borrowing.The closing of the Acquisition may trigger early repayment rights under some or all of the outstanding Omega indebtedness.Certain agreements governing the Omega indebtedness contain change of control and cross-default provisions that may be triggered in connection with the Acquisition. If the Acquisition triggers the change of control provision or cross-default provision under such agreements, these agreements provide (i) an early redemption put right to the note holders requiring the applicable issuer to redeem certain of the notes at 100% of the principal amount thereof and certain of the notes at a premium to the principal amount of up to 101% in each case, plus accrued and unpaid interest, and/ or (ii) lenders with the right to terminate their commitments under Omega’s credit facilities and accelerate repayment of all indebtedness incurred thereunder.  44Table of ContentsThe Company cannot predict whether Omega’s lenders and/or note holders will exercise these acceleration and cross-default rights. In addition, certain agreements governing the Omega indebtedness do not provide the applicable issuer with prepayment rights in the event of a change of control. If the note holders party to such agreements refuse to allow early prepayment, the Company may not be able to extinguish that indebtedness in connection with the Acquisition. Risks Related to the BusinessThe Company has direct interactions with health care professionals, which is often referred to as physician detailing. Failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations may result in governmental investigation, regulatory action, and legal proceedings. The Company has expanded its pharmaceutical marketing to include direct interactions with health care professionals, which is known as “detailing.” This activity is subject to extensive regulation under a variety of U.S. laws and regulations, including anti-kickback, anti-bribery and false claims laws; the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act with respect to claims and off-label promotions; and similar laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions. If any of these activities are found to be improper, the Company could be subject to civil and governmental actions and penalties. These risks may increase as non-U.S. jurisdictions adopt new anti-bribery laws and regulations.Our increasing role in the global marketplace may place us at greater risk of cyber events or other security incidents adversely affecting our Company’s manufacturing, supply chain, operations and financial position. The Company's manufacturing operations are concentrated in Michigan, Minnesota, South Carolina, New York, Vermont, Ohio, Nebraska, and Israel. Approximately 80% of the Company's fiscal 2014 revenues were related to these worldwide manufacturing facilities. Company systems, information, operations as well as our independent vendor relationships (where they support information technology and manufacturing infrastructure) are vulnerable to disruption or damage from, but not limited to, security breaches, hacking, data theft, denial of service attacks, human error, natural disasters, power loss, fire, sabotage, industrial espionage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, insufficient quality, or pandemic at any of the Company’s facilities. These and other similar events could impair the Company’s ability to develop, meet regulatory approval efforts, produce and/or ship products on a timely basis. This would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s manufacturing, supply chain, operations and financial position. Given the Company's position in the pharmaceutical industry, it may be more likely to be a direct target, or an indirect casualty, of such events.While the Company continues to employ resources to monitor its systems and protect its infrastructure, these measures may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed. Any system issue, whether as a result of an intentional breach or a natural disaster, could damage the Company's reputation and cause it to lose customers, experience lower sales volume, incur significant liabilities or otherwise have a negative impact on the business, financial condition and operating results. The Company also could incur significant expense in addressing any of these problems and in addressing related data security and privacy concerns.Tax-related risksChanges in tax laws or income tax rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and the ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner. The Company believes that under current law, it should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. However, changes to the inversion rules in section 7874 of the Code, or the IRS Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, or other IRS guidance, could adversely affect the Company's status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, and any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application to the Company, Perrigo Company, and/or their respective stockholders, shareholders and affiliates. In addition, recent legislative proposals have aimed to expand the scope of U.S. corporate tax residence, and such legislation, if passed, could have an adverse effect on the Company.Moreover, the Office of the Revenue Commissioners, U.S. Congress, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development and other Government agencies in jurisdictions where the Company and its  45Table of Contentsaffiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. One example is in the area of "base erosion and profit shifting", where payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. As a result, the tax laws in the U.S. and other countries in which the Company and its affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect the Company.A number of factors may adversely impact the Company's future effective tax rates, such as income tax rate changes by governments; the jurisdictions in which the Company's profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the valuation of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; adjustments to the Company's interpretation of transfer pricing standards, changes in available tax credits, grants and other incentives; changes in stock-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws (e.g., proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform); changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; expiration or the inability to renew tax rulings or tax holiday incentives; and the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings with respect to which the Company has not previously provided for U.S. taxes. A change in the Company's effective tax rate due to any of these factors may adversely impact the Company's future results from operations. Also, changes in tax laws could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner. Although the Company believes that its tax estimates are reasonable and that the Company's tax filings are prepared in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audit, and any related litigation, could be materially different from the Company's estimates or from the Company's historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on operating results or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made. In addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties, or interest assessments.The Company is currently under audit by the Israel Tax Authority for fiscal 2011 and 2012. In December 2014, the IRS notified the Company that it will conduct an audit of fiscal 2011 and 2012. The IRS audit of fiscal 2009 and 2010 had previously concluded with the issuance of a statutory notice of deficiency on August 27, 2014. While the Company had previously agreed on certain adjustments and made associated payments of $8.0 million inclusive of interest in November 2014, the statutory notice of deficiency asserted various additional positions, including transfer pricing, relative to the same fiscal 2009 and 2010 audit. The statutory notice asserted an incremental tax obligation of approximately $69.2 million, inclusive of interest and penalties. The Company disagrees with the IRS’s positions asserted in the notice of deficiency and plans to contest them in U.S. Federal court. In January 2015, the Company paid this amount, a prerequisite to being able to contest the IRS’s positions in U.S. Federal court. The payment was recorded in the third fiscal quarter as a deferred charge on the balance sheet given the Company’s anticipated action to recover this amount. An unfavorable resolution of this matter could have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements in future periods. There are numerous other income tax jurisdictions for which tax returns are not yet settled, none of which are individually significant. At this time, the Company cannot predict the outcome of any audit or related litigation. Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds