Item 1ARisk FactorsITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOur Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 includes a detailed discussion of our risk factors. At the time of this filing, there have been no material changes to the risk factors that were included in the Form 10-K, other than described below.We identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting; failure to remediate the material weaknesses could negatively impact our business and the price of our ordinary shares.In connection with our review of certain material misstatements related to the characterization of the Tysabri® royalty stream acquired in the Elan transaction, as well as material misstatements related to the calculation of deferred tax liabilities that existed at the time of the acquisition of Omega, and the evaluation of long-lived assets in our Animal Health reporting unit for impairment testing, in each case contained in certain of our historical financial statements, we concluded that there were material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that contributed to those misstatements. As a result of the material weaknesses, which existed at December 31, 2016 and remained at July 1, 2017, we have concluded that we did not maintain, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016, April 1, 2017 or July 1, 2017, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). The failure to maintain effective control over financial reporting in turn resulted in material deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures. We have identified and begun the implementation of actions, and continue to identify and implement, actions to improve the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, but there can be no assurance that such remediation efforts will be successful. We have also incurred and will continue to incur substantial accounting, legal, consulting, and other costs in connection with identifying and remediating the material weaknesses. Failure to remediate the material weaknesses could have a negative impact on our business and the market for our ordinary shares. For more information on our material weaknesses and the status of our remediation efforts, See Part I, Item 4 - Controls and Procedures.We are currently involved in a search for a new Chief Executive Officer and a subsequent search for a permanent Chief Financial Officer. If these searches are delayed, our business could be negatively impacted. On June 5, 2017, we announced the forthcoming retirement of John T. Hendrickson as our Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Hendrickson will continue to serve as our Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board until such time as a successor has been appointed. Our Board of Directors has initiated a Chief Executive Officer search process and has retained an executive search and leadership advisory firm to assist with the process of identifying and evaluating candidates. In addition, on February 21, 2017, we announced the resignation of Judy L. Brown as our Executive Vice President, Business Operations and Chief Financial Officer, effective February 27, 2017. Since that time, Ronald L. Winowiecki has served as our acting Chief Financial Officer. Although Mr. Winowiecki remains a key candidate for our permanent Chief Financial Officer, our Board of Directors has suspended its Chief Financial Officer search during its search for Mr. Hendrickson’s successor as Chief Executive Officer. There are no assurances concerning the timing or outcome of our search for a new Chief Executive Officer or subsequent search for a permanent Chief Financial Officer. If there are any delays in this process, or if any transition is not successful, our business could be negatively impacted.The resolution of uncertain tax positions could be unfavorable, which could have an adverse effect on our business.Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable and that our tax filings are prepared in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audit, and any related litigation, could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on operating results or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made. In addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties or interest assessments. 54Perrigo Company plc - Item 1ARisk Factors•In the United States, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) audit of our fiscal years ended June 27, 2009 and June 26, 2010 had previously concluded with the issuance of a statutory notice of deficiency on August 27, 2014. While we had previously agreed on certain adjustments and made associated payments of $8.0 million (inclusive of interest) in November 2014, the statutory notice of deficiency asserted various additional adjustments, including transfer pricing adjustments. The statutory notice of deficiency's adjustments for fiscal years 2009 and 2010 asserted an incremental tax obligation of approximately $68.9 million, inclusive of interest and penalties. We disagree with the IRS’s positions asserted in the statutory notice of deficiency. To contest the IRS’s adjustments, in January 2015 we paid the incremental tax obligation (a prerequisite to contesting the proposed adjustments in U.S. district court), and in June 2015, we filed an administrative request for a refund with the IRS. The IRS subsequently denied our request for a refund. We anticipate filing a complaint in U.S. district court claiming a refund of the paid amounts in August 2017. •The IRS issued a statutory notice of deficiency on April 20, 2017 for the IRS audits of our fiscal years ended June 25, 2011 and June 30, 2012. While we agreed to certain adjustments with respect to these years in October 2016 and made minimal associated payments, the statutory notice of deficiency asserted various additional adjustments, including transfer pricing adjustments. The statutory notice of deficiency for fiscal years 2011 and 2012 asserted an incremental tax obligation of approximately $74.2 million, inclusive of interest and penalties. We disagree with the IRS’s positions asserted in this notice. In anticipation of contesting the IRS’s adjustments, in May 2017 we paid the incremental tax obligation (a prerequisite to contesting the proposed adjustments in U.S. district court) and expect to file an administrative request for refund.•On December 22, 2016, we received a notice of proposed adjustment for the IRS audit of Athena Neurosciences, Inc. (“Athena”), a subsidiary of Elan Corporation plc (“Elan”) acquired in 1996, for the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013. We acquired Elan in December 2013. This proposed amendment relates to the deductibility of litigation costs. We disagree with the IRS’s position asserted in the notice of proposed adjustment and intend to contest it. On July 11, 2017, we received a draft notice of proposed adjustment associated with transfer pricing positions for the IRS audit of Athena for the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013. Athena was the originator of the patents associated with Tysabri® prior to the acquisition of Athena by Elan in 1996. The amount of adjustments that may be asserted by the IRS in the final notice of proposed adjustment cannot be quantified at this time; however, based on the draft notice received, the amount to be assessed may be material. We disagree with the IRS’s position as asserted in the draft notice of proposed adjustment and intend to contest it.There are numerous other income tax jurisdictions for which tax returns are not yet settled, none of which are individually significant. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of any audit or related litigation. Unfavorable resolutions of the audit matters discussed above could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements in future periods. ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS