Item 1ARisk FactorsITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 includes a detailed discussion of our risk factors. At the time of this filing, there have been no material changes to the risk factors that were included in the Form 10-K, other than described below.The resolution of uncertain tax positions could be unfavorable, which could have an adverse effect on our business.Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable and that our tax filings are prepared in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audit or any related litigation could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on operating results or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made and in future periods after the determination. In addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties or interest assessments.We are currently involved in several audit and adjustment related disputes, including litigation, with the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). These include litigation regarding our 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012 tax years, as well as proposed audit adjustments related to litigation costs and transfer pricing positions related to Athena Neurosciences, Inc. (“Athena”), a subsidiary of Elan acquired in 1996, for the 2011, 2012 and 2013 tax years. In addition, on October 31, 2018, we received an audit finding letter from the Irish Office of the Revenue Commissioners (“Irish Revenue”) for the years under audit 2012-2013. The audit finding letter relates to Elan’s taxation of the 2013 sale of the Tysabri® intellectual property and other assets related to Tysabri® to Biogen Idec from Elan. The consideration paid by Biogen to Elan took the form of an upfront payment and future contingent royalty payments. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of any audit or related litigation. Unfavorable resolutions of the audit matters discussed above could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements in future periods. Management transition creates uncertainties, and any difficulties we experience in managing such transitions may negatively impact our business. Over the last several years, we have experienced a number of changes in our executive leadership. Most recently, on October 8, 2018, we announced the appointment of Murray S. Kessler as President and Chief Executive Officer and member of our Board. Mr. Kessler’s appointment followed the resignation of Uwe Roehrhoff, who had held those roles since his appointment in January 2018. Changes in executive management create uncertainty. Moreover, changes in our company as a result of management transition could have a disruptive impact on our ability to implement, or result in changes to, our strategy and could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.The plan to separate our RX business from the Company is contingent upon a number of conditions, is subject to change in form or timing, may not achieve the intended benefits, and could adversely affect our business and financial condition.On August 9, 2018, we announced a plan to separate our RX business from our other operations. The separation may take one of several forms and would be subject to a number of conditions, which could include effectiveness of registration statements or other filing requirements with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, possible legal opinions regarding the tax treatment of the separation, and Board approval. We currently expect the separation to be completed during the second half of 2019, however there can be no assurances as to the form or timing of a separation or if a separation will be consummated.The proposed separation, regardless of form, would be a complex endeavor and could be affected by unanticipated developments and other factors, such as the impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, other tax reform and related existing regulations or future regulations (which may be retroactive), existing interdependencies with our manufacturing and shared-service operations, the outcome of the liability, if any, associated with our price-fixing claims, results of other strategic initiatives, and changes in market conditions, any of which could change,  51Perrigo Company plc - Item 1ARisk Factorsdelay or prevent the achievement of our strategic and financial objectives for the Company or our RX business. In addition, the separation of the RX business could impact our ability to retain key employees, comply with existing debt arrangements, maintain our credit ratings or raise future capital.Even if the separation is completed, we may not achieve anticipated operational, financial, strategic and other benefits of the separation. After the separation, the combined value and financial performance of the Company and RX business may not equal the value and financial performance of the Company had the separation not occurred. In connection with the proposed separation, we anticipate incurring significant preparation costs, excluding restructuring expenses and transaction costs, in the range of $45.0 million to $80.0 million depending on the final structure of a transaction, with a spin-off resulting in costs at the higher end of this range. In addition, completion of the separation will require a significant amount of management time and effort, which may disrupt our business or otherwise divert management’s attention from other aspects of our business, including our other strategic initiatives, possible organic or inorganic growth opportunities, and customer and vendor relationships. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition.ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS