ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 includes a detailed discussion of our risk factors. At the time of this filing, there have been no material changes to the risk factors that were included in the Form 10-K, other than described below.The plan to separate our RX business from the Company is contingent upon a number of conditions, is subject to change in form or timing, may not achieve the intended benefits, and could adversely affect our business and financial condition.On August 9, 2018, we announced a plan to separate our RX business from our other operations. The separation may take one of several forms and would be subject to a number of conditions, which could include effectiveness of registration statements or other filing requirements with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, possible legal opinions regarding the tax treatment of the separation, and Board approval. We currently expect the separation to be completed during the second half of 2019, however there can be no assurances as to the form or timing of a separation or if a separation will be consummated.The proposed separation, regardless of form, would be a complex endeavor and could be affected by unanticipated developments and other factors, such as the impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, other tax reform and related existing regulations or future regulations (which may be retroactive), existing interdependencies with our manufacturing and shared-service operations, the outcome of the liability, if any, associated with our price-fixing claims, results of other strategic initiatives, and changes in market conditions, any of which could change, delay or prevent the achievement of our strategic and financial objectives for the Company or our RX business. In addition, the separation of the RX business could impact our ability to retain key employees, comply with existing debt arrangements, maintain our credit ratings or raise future capital. 49Perrigo Company plc - Item 1ARisk FactorsEven if the separation is completed, we may not achieve anticipated operational, financial, strategic and other benefits of the separation. After the separation, the combined value and financial performance of the Company and RX business may not equal the value and financial performance of the Company had the separation not occurred. We will also incur significant costs in connection with the proposed separation, which we cannot quantify until the form of separation is determined. In addition, completion of the separation will require a significant amount of management time and effort, which may disrupt our business or otherwise divert management’s attention from other aspects of our business, including our other strategic initiatives, possible organic or inorganic growth opportunities, and customer and vendor relationships. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition.ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS