Item 1A. Risk Factors   In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed under “Risk Factors” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 11, 2010. These risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks and uncertainties in our Form 10-Q are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.   Loss of our exclusive licenses to list certain index options could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.   We hold exclusive licenses to list securities index options on the S&P 500 Index, the S&P 100 Index and the DJIA, granted to us by the owners of such indexes. In 2009, approximately 32% of CBOE’s transaction fees were generated by our exclusively-licensed index products. Revenue attributable to SPX, our S&P 500 Index option product and our largest product by revenue, represented 92% of the transaction fees generated by our exclusively-licensed index products. As a result, our operating revenues are dependent in part on the exclusive licenses we hold for these products.   The value of our exclusive licenses to list securities index options depends on the continued ability of index owners to grant us licenses or require licenses for the trading of options based on their indexes. Although recent court decisions have allowed the trading of options on ETFs based on indexes without licenses from the owners of the underlying indexes, none of these decisions has overturned existing legal precedent that requires an exchange to be licensed by the owner of an underlying index before it may list options based on the index. However, in two pending cases between International Securities Exchange, Inc., or ISE, and the owners of the S&P 500 Index and the DJIA, and, in one of the cases, the CBOE, ISE seeks a judicial determination that it (and, by extension, other options exchanges) has the right to list options on those indexes without licenses and, therefore, without regard to the CBOE’s exclusive licenses to list securities options on those indexes. These cases are currently pending, although the Circuit Court of Cook County granted summary judgment in favor of CBOE (and the owners of the S&P 500 Index and the DJIA) in the Illinois action on July 8, 2010. The court also issued a permanent injunction against ISE prohibiting it from listing or offering unlicensed options on the S&P 500 or DJIA, and the court issued a permanent injunction against Options Clearing Corporation (OCC) from issuing or clearing such options. On July 28, 2010, ISE filed an appeal of the court’s ruling with the Illinois Appellate Court. On August 4, 2010, OCC also filed an appeal of the court’s ruling with the Illinois Appellate Court. See Note 16 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.   Because these cases are still pending, there remains risk that ISE may be successful in obtaining a judicial determination eliminating the right of index owners to require licenses to use their indexes for options trading, including on an exclusive basis. In addition, competing exchanges may convince the SEC, or seek a judicial action, to limit the right of index owners to grant exclusive licenses for index options trading or to prevent exchanges from entering into such exclusive licenses. If unlicensed trading of index options were permitted or if exclusive licenses for index options trading were prohibited or limited, the value of the CBOE’s exclusive licenses would be eliminated, and the CBOE likely would lose market share in these index options. An adverse ruling in the ISE litigation could also result in legal challenges to our exclusive use of our proprietary indexes for options.   There is also a risk, with respect to each of our current exclusive licenses, that the owner of the index may determine not to renew the license on an exclusive basis, or not to renew it at all, upon the expiration of the current term. In the first event, we would be subject to multiple listing in the trading of what is now an exclusive index product, resulting in a loss of market share and negatively impacting the profitability to the CBOE of trading in the licensed products. In the second event, we could lose the right to list the index product entirely. The loss or limited use of any of our exclusive index licenses for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability.   Furthermore, our competitors may succeed in providing a market for the trading of index-based products that are economically similar to those for which we have exclusive licenses. It is also possible that a third party may offer trading in index-based products that are the same as those that are the subject of one of our exclusive licenses, but in a jurisdiction in which the index owner cannot require a license or in a manner otherwise not covered by our exclusive license.   39      Table of Contents   Recently, CBOE and S&P agreed that S&P may license one or more clearing agencies to clear OTC options based on the S&P 500 index which meet certain criteria, some of which are currently under negotiation, and that S&P will compensate CBOE for any transaction cleared under such a license based on the notional value of the transaction. Although CBOE expects these transactions to generate incremental revenue, the clearing of options on the S&P 500 index that are traded OTC could lead to the migration to the OTC market of some trades that today would be entered into on CBOE, and there can be no assurance that any revenue gained will replace the revenue lost due to any migration.   Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds