Item 1A. Risk Factors   Risks Relating to Our Business   Regulatory changes affecting the listed options market, or changes to the tax treatment for options trading, could have a significant affect on the behavior of market participants, which could have a material adverse affect on our business.   The listed options market depends on a national market structure that facilitates the efficient buying and selling of underlying stocks, futures and other products. Government action, such as changes in regulation by the SEC or changes in federal taxation, could materially affect the behavior of market participants. For example, the SEC recently approved new rules related to short selling that    34      Table of Contents   could impact the use of options by both members and customers. In particular, new restrictions on short selling do not contain an options market maker exception and could adversely affect the ability of options market makers to conduct their business on the CBOE and elsewhere. In addition, the SEC has proposed a rule that would ban the use of “flash orders.” We believe that prohibiting flash orders would eliminate price improvement opportunities and create additional execution costs for our customers. We cannot predict what future actions the SEC might take with respect to its rulemakings on short selling, flash orders or other matters, or the impact that any such actions may have on our business. If our market participants reduce or otherwise modify their trading activity on the CBOE due to either proposed or actual regulatory changes, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially impacted.   In 2009, the current administration proposed a change to the existing tax treatment for futures traders and certain options market participants, including options market makers. The proposal calls for repeal of the “60/40 Rule,” which allows market makers to pay a blend of capital gains and ordinary tax rates on their income. In addition, legislation has been introduced that would impose a new tax on securities, futures and swap transactions, including exchange-traded options. If either the proposed repeal of the “60/40 Rule” or a transaction tax were to become law, the resulting additional taxes could have a negative impact on the options industry and CBOE by making options transactions more costly to market participants.   The SEC recently published for comment proposed rule amendments that, if adopted as proposed, would place a $0.30 per contract limit on the total access fees that an exchange may charge for the execution of an order against a quotation that is the best bid or best offer of such exchange in a listed option. The SEC estimated in its release, based on December 2009 options trade data available to the SEC, that if the $0.30 fee cap were applied as proposed in the release, the potential reduction in annual revenue to CBOE could be approximately $23.9 million. We do not have complete information on how the SEC arrived at this figure. We undertook our own review of December 2009 trade data in which we only applied the proposed fee cap to the execution of orders that traded against CBOE’s displayed best bid or offer. Although the proposed rule is drafted broadly, our review was based on CBOE’s interpretation of the SEC’s discussion in the release which largely focuses on access to displayed bids and offers and makes statements such as: “the proposed access fee would apply only to quotations that market participants are required to access to comply with the Trade-Through Rules.” Based on this interpretation and our analysis (using our December 2009 contract volume), we currently estimate that the potential reduction to the transaction fee component of annual operating revenue of CBOE could be approximately $14.2 million. We note that we did not exclude transactions in singly-listed options for this analysis in order to allow a more consistent comparison with how we understand the SEC to have calculated its estimate.   We cannot predict whether the SEC will adopt the fee cap as proposed, a modified version, or at all. The potential impact to our revenues, however, could be higher or lower depending on changes in our contract volume and product mix in future periods as well as other factors, including those that are currently being considered as part of the rulemaking process. For example, in its release, the SEC asks whether the proposed fee cap should only apply to multiply-listed options. If the proposed rules are adopted as proposed, or are adopted in a form substantially similar to that proposed, and CBOE is unable to make changes to its fee structure in response to the rules as adopted, they would have a material adverse effect on our business, result of operations and financial condition.   Loss of our exclusive licenses to list certain index options could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.   We hold exclusive licenses to list securities index options on the S&P 500 Index, the S&P 100 Index and the DJIA, granted to us by the owners of such indexes. In 2009, approximately 32% of CBOE’s transaction fees were generated by our exclusively-licensed index products. Revenue attributable to SPX, our S&P 500 Index option product and our largest product by revenue, represented 92% of the transaction fees generated by our exclusively-licensed index products. As a result, our operating revenues are dependent in part on the exclusive licenses we hold for these products.   The value of our exclusive licenses to list securities index options depends on the continued ability of index owners to grant us licenses or require licenses for the trading of options based on their indexes. Although recent court decisions have allowed the trading of options on ETFs based on indexes without licenses from the owners of the underlying indexes, none of these decisions has overturned existing legal precedent that requires an exchange to be licensed by the owner of an underlying index before it may list options based on the index. However, in two pending cases between International Securities Exchange, Inc., or ISE, and the owners of the S&P 500 Index and the DJIA, and, in one of the cases, the CBOE, ISE seeks a judicial determination that it (and, by extension, other options exchanges) has the right to list options on those indexes without licenses and, therefore, without regard to the CBOE’s exclusive licenses to list securities options on those indexes. These cases are currently pending. See “Part II — Item 1—Legal Proceedings.” Because of these cases, there is a risk that ISE may be successful in obtaining a judicial determination eliminating the    35      Table of Contents   right of index owners to require licenses to use their indexes for options trading, including on an exclusive basis. In addition, competing exchanges may convince the SEC, or seek a judicial action, to limit the right of index owners to grant exclusive licenses for index options trading or to prevent exchanges from entering into such exclusive licenses. If unlicensed trading of index options were permitted or if exclusive licenses for index options trading were prohibited or limited, the value of the CBOE’s exclusive licenses would be eliminated, and the CBOE likely would lose market share in these index options. An adverse ruling in the ISE litigation could also result in legal challenges to our exclusive use of our proprietary indexes for options.   There is also a risk, with respect to each of our current exclusive licenses, that the owner of the index may determine not to renew the license on an exclusive basis, or not to renew it at all, upon the expiration of the current term. In the first event, we would be subject to multiple listing in the trading of what is now an exclusive index product, resulting in a loss of market share and negatively impacting the profitability to the CBOE of trading in the licensed products. In the second event, we could lose the right to list the index product entirely. The loss or limited use of any of our exclusive index licenses for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability.   Furthermore, our competitors may succeed in providing a market for the trading of index-based products that are economically similar to those for which we have exclusive licenses. It is also possible that a third party may offer trading in index-based products that are the same as those that are the subject of one of our exclusive licenses, but in a jurisdiction in which the index owner cannot require a license or in a manner otherwise not covered by our exclusive license.   Recently, CBOE and S&P agreed that S&P may license one or more clearing agencies to clear OTC options based on the S&P 500 index which meet certain criteria, some of which are currently under negotiation, and that S&P will compensate CBOE for any transaction cleared under such a license based on the notional value of the transaction. Although CBOE expects these transactions to generate incremental revenue, the clearing of options on the S&P 500 index that are traded OTC could lead to the migration to the OTC market of some trades that today would be entered into on CBOE, and there can be no assurance that any revenue gained will replace the revenue lost due to any migration.   A significant portion of our operating revenues are generated by our transaction-based business. If the amount of trading volume on the CBOE decreases, our revenues from transaction fees will decrease.   In 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately 74%, 83% and 79% of our operating revenues, respectively, and for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, 82.5% and 81.5% of our operating revenues, respectively, were generated by our transaction-based business. This business is dependent on our ability to attract and maintain order flow, both in absolute terms and relative to other market centers. CBOE’s total trading volumes could decline if our market participants decide to reduce their level of trading activity for any reason, such as: (i) a reduction in the number of traders that use us, (ii) a reduction in trading demand by customers, (iii) heightened capital maintenance requirements or other regulatory or legislative requirements, (iv) reduced access to capital required to fund trading activities or (v) significant market disruptions. If the amount of trading volume on the CBOE decreases, our revenues from transaction fees will decrease. There may also be a reduction in revenue from market data fees or other sources of revenue. If the CBOE’s share of total trading volumes decreases relative to our competitors, our markets may be less attractive to market participants and we may lose trading volume and associated transaction fees and market data fees as a result.   Intense competition could materially adversely affect our market share and financial performance.   Competition among options exchanges has intensified since the CBOE was created in 1973, and we expect this trend to continue. We compete with a number of entities on several different fronts, including the cost, quality and speed of our trade execution, the functionality and ease of use of our trading platform, the range of our products and services, our technological innovation and adaptation and our reputation. Our principal competitors are the seven other U.S. options exchanges. We also compete against investment banks and others writing options over-the-counter.   We currently face greater competition than ever before in our history. Virtually all of the equity options and options on ETFs listed and traded on the CBOE are also listed and traded on other U.S. options exchanges. Some order-providing firms have taken ownership positions in options exchanges that compete with us, thereby giving those firms an added incentive to direct orders to the exchanges they own. As a result of these competitive developments, our market share of options traded in the U.S. fell from approximately 45% in 2000 to approximately 31% in 2009.   36      Table of Contents   In response to these developments, we developed our own electronic trading facility that we operate as part of a “hybrid” model, combining electronic trading and remote off-floor market-makers with traditional floor-based, open outcry trading. We also administer a program through which we collect a marketing fee on market maker transactions. The funds collected are made available to the specialist and preferred market makers for use in payment for order flow. These changes may not be successful in maintaining or expanding our market share in the future. Likewise, our future responses to these or other competitive developments may not be successful in maintaining or expanding our market share.   In addition, many of our competitors and potential competitors may have greater financial, marketing, technological, personnel and other resources than we do. These factors may enable them to develop similar or more innovative products, to offer lower transaction fees or better execution to their customers or to execute their business strategies more quickly or efficiently than we can.   Furthermore, our competitors may:   · respond more quickly to competitive pressures;   · develop products that compete with our products or are preferred by our customers;   · price their products and services more competitively;   · develop and expand their technology and service offerings more efficiently;   · provide better, more user-friendly and more reliable technology;   · take greater advantage of acquisitions, alliances and other opportunities;   · market, promote and sell their products and services more effectively;   · leverage existing relationships with customers and alliance partners more effectively or exploit more recognized brand names to market and sell their services; and   · exploit regulatory disparities between traditional, regulated exchanges and alternative markets, including over-the-counter markets, that benefit from a reduced regulatory burden and lower-cost business model.   In recent years, the derivatives industry has witnessed increased consolidation among market participants, including option exchanges and marketplaces. Consolidation and alliances among our competitors may create greater liquidity than we offer. As a result, the larger liquidity pools may attract orders away from us, leading to reductions in trading volume and liquidity on the CBOE, and therefore to decreased revenues. In addition, consolidation or alliances among our competitors may achieve cost reductions or other increases in efficiency, which may allow them to offer better prices or customer service than we do.   If our products, markets, services and technology are not competitive, our business, financial condition and operating results will be materially harmed. A decline in our transaction fees or any loss of customers would lower our revenues, which would adversely affect our profitability.   Our business may be adversely affected by price competition.   The business of operating an options exchange is characterized by intense price competition. The pricing model for trade execution for options has changed in response to competitive market conditions and CBOE and its competitors have adjusted their transaction fees and fee structures accordingly. Some competitors have introduced a market model in which orders that take liquidity from the market are charged a transaction fee and orders that provide liquidity receive a rebate. These changes have resulted in significant pricing and cost pressures on the CBOE. It is likely that this pressure will continue and even intensify as our competitors continue to seek to increase their share of trading by further reducing their transaction fees or by offering other financial incentives to order providers and liquidity providers to induce them to direct orders to their markets. In addition, one or more competitors may engage in aggressive pricing strategies and significantly decrease or completely eliminate their profit margin for a period of time in    37      Table of Contents   order to capture a greater share of trading. If any of these or other events occur, our operating results and profitability could be adversely affected. For example, the CBOE could lose a substantial percentage of its share of trading if it is unable to price its transactions in a competitive manner. Also, the CBOE’s profit margins could decline if competitive pressures force it to reduce its fees.   We may not be able to generate a significant amount of incremental operating revenues by making trading access available in exchange for a fee paid directly to the CBOE.   Prior to CBOE’s restructuring transaction, the ability to trade on the CBOE was an inherent right of every CBOE membership and owners of CBOE Seats either used the CBOE Seat to trade or leased the CBOE Seat to an individual or firm who used it to trade. As a result of the restructuring transaction, trading access will be separated from ownership. Upon the effectiveness of the restructuring transaction, the right to trade on the CBOE will be made available through trading permits issued by the CBOE that will be subject to fees paid directly to the CBOE. These fees are expected to account for a significant portion of our future operating revenues. If the demand for access to the CBOE is less than historic levels or if we are unable to maintain anticipated permit rates, our ability to generate incremental operating revenues through the granting of permits for trading access would be negatively impacted, which could adversely affect our profitability.   Market fluctuations and other factors beyond our control could significantly reduce demand for our products and services and harm our business.   The volume of options transactions and the demand for our products and services are directly affected by economic, political and market conditions in the United States and elsewhere in the world that are beyond our control, including:   · broad trends in business and finance;   · concerns about terrorism and war;   · concerns over inflation and wavering institutional or retail confidence levels;   · changes in government monetary policy and foreign currency exchange rates;   · the availability of short-term and long-term funding and capital;   · the availability of alternative investment opportunities;   · changes in the level of trading activity in underlying instruments;   · changes and volatility in the prices of securities;   · changes in tax policy;   · the level and volatility of interest rates;   · legislative and regulatory changes; and   · unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading.   General economic conditions affect options trading in a variety of ways, from influencing the availability of capital to affecting investor confidence. The economic climate in recent years has been characterized by challenging business, economic and political conditions throughout the world. Adverse changes in the economy can have a negative impact on our revenues by causing a decline in trading volume or in the demand for options market data. Because our management structure and overhead costs will be based on assumptions of certain levels of market activity, significant declines in trading volumes or demand for market data may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.   38      Table of Contents   Damage to the reputation of the CBOE could have a material adverse effect on our businesses.   One of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. This reputation could be harmed in many different ways, including by regulatory failures, governance failures or technology failures. Damage to the reputation of the CBOE could adversely affect our ability to attract customers, liquidity providers and order flow, which in turn could impair the competitiveness of our markets and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.   We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights.   We rely on patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, the law of the doctrine of misappropriation and contractual protections to protect our proprietary technology, proprietary index products and index methodologies and other proprietary rights. In addition, we rely on the intellectual property rights of our licensors in connection with our listing of exclusively-licensed index products. We and our licensors may not be able to prevent third parties from copying, or otherwise obtaining and using, our proprietary technology without authorization or from listing our proprietary or exclusively-licensed index products without licenses or otherwise infringing on our rights. We and our licensors may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. We and our licensors may not be successful in this regard. Such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us, diversions of our resources or a reduction in our revenues, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. For a description of current litigation involving these matters, please see “Part II—Item 1—Legal Proceedings.”   Computer and communications systems failures and capacity constraints could harm our reputation and our business.   We must operate, monitor and maintain our computer systems and network services, including those systems and services related to our electronic trading system, in a secure and reliable manner. A failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the functionality and reliability of our market and on our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. System failure or degradation could lead our customers to file formal complaints with industry regulators, file lawsuits against us or cease doing business with us or could lead regulators to initiate inquiries or proceedings for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, any of which could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results.   The computer systems and communication networks upon which we rely in the operation of our Exchange may be vulnerable to security risks and other disruptions.   The secure and reliable operation of our computer systems and of our own communications networks and those of our service providers, our members and our customers is a critical element of our operations. These systems and communications networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems, as well as to acts of terrorism, natural disasters and other force majeure events. If our security measures are compromised or if there are interruptions or malfunctions in our systems or communications networks, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially impacted. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including harm to reputation and litigation, caused by any breaches in security or system failures. Although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures and otherwise to provide for the integrity and reliability of our systems, these measures may prove to be inadequate in preventing system failures or delays in our systems or communications networks, which could lower trading volume and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.   39      Table of Contents   We may be unable to keep up with rapid technological changes.   Our industry has experienced, and will continue to experience, rapid technological change, changes in use and customer requirements and preferences, frequent product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality, accessibility and features of our automated trading and communications systems. This will require us to continue to attract and retain a highly-skilled technology staff and invest the financial resources necessary to keep our systems up to date. If we fail to do so, our systems could become less competitive, which could result in the loss of customers and trading volume and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.   Our decision to operate a second marketplace may have a material adverse effect on our operating results.   Our current business strategy involves the operation of C2, which we expect to launch in late 2010. This second exchange will operate separately from CBOE with its own governance structure and systems. C2 will operate as an electronic marketplace and will be capable of trading all of CBOE’s products, including SPX. In addition, C2 will serve as a backup trading facility for CBOE.   The CBOE is spending substantial funds on the development of C2 and, as of March 31, 2010, has incurred $22.9 million in expenditures. C2 may be unable to generate sufficient transaction volume and cash flow to provide a satisfactory return on CBOE’s investment. It also is possible that member firms may choose not to connect to C2, for instance, because they may conclude that doing so will not attract sufficient order flow to justify the connection cost. A failure of C2 as an exchange could result in a write off of all or some portion of our investment in C2’s development. Alternatively, if C2 is successful, it could cause a shift of trading volume from CBOE to the C2 platform.   A significant portion of our cost structure is fixed. If our operating revenues decline and we are unable to reduce our costs, our profitability will be adversely affected.   A significant portion of our cost structure is fixed, meaning that such portion of our cost structure is generally independent of trading volume. Salaries and benefits, which represented 30% of our total operating expenses in 2009, are our largest expense category and tend to be driven by both our staffing requirements and the general dynamics of the employment market, rather than trading volumes. If demand for our products and services declines, our operating revenues will decline. We may not be able to adjust our cost structure, at all or on a timely basis, to counteract a decrease in revenue, which would result in an adverse impact on our profitability. Moreover, if demand for future products that we acquire or license is not at the level necessary to offset the cost of the acquisition or license, our net income would decline.   Our market data revenues may be reduced or eliminated due to a decline in our market share, regulatory action or a reduction in the number of market data users.   We obtain approximately 5% of our operating revenues from our share of the revenues collected by the Options Price Reporting Authority, or OPRA, for the dissemination of options market data. If our share of options trading were to decline, our share of OPRA market data revenue would also decline. Market data revenue could also decline as a result of a reduction in the numbers of market data users, for example because of consolidation among market data subscribers or due to a decline in professional subscriptions as a result of staff reductions in the financial services industry, or otherwise. Finally, the SEC could take regulatory action to revise the formula for allocating options market data revenues among the options exchanges similar to the action it took in 2005 when it adopted Regulation NMS in respect of market data revenue in the stock market, or it could take other regulatory action that could have the effect either of reducing total options market data revenue or our share of that revenue. Any significant decline in the revenue we realize from the dissemination of market data could have an adverse effect on our profitability.   If we fail to attract or retain highly skilled management and other employees, our business may be harmed.   Our future success depends in large part on our management team, which possesses extensive knowledge and managerial skill with respect to the critical aspects of our business. The failure to retain certain members of our management team could adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively and execute our business strategy.   40      Table of Contents   Our business is also dependent on highly skilled employees who provide specialized services to our clients and oversee our compliance and technology functions. Many of these employees have extensive knowledge and experience in highly technical and complex areas of the options trading industry. Because of the complexity and risks associated with our business and the specialized knowledge required to conduct this business effectively, and because the growth in our industry has increased demand for qualified personnel, many of our employees could find employment at other firms if they chose to do so, particularly if we fail to continue to provide competitive levels of compensation. If we fail to retain our current employees, it would be difficult and costly to identify, recruit and train replacements needed to continue to conduct and expand our business. In particular, failure to retain and attract qualified systems and compliance personnel could result in systems errors or regulatory infractions. Consequently, our reputation may be harmed, we may incur additional costs and our profitability could decline.   We may not effectively manage our growth, which could materially harm our business.   We expect that our business will continue to grow, which may place a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. We must continue to improve our operational and financial systems and managerial controls and procedures, and we will need to continue to expand, train and manage our technology workforce. We must also maintain close coordination among our technology, compliance, accounting, finance, marketing and sales organizations. We cannot assure you that we will manage our growth effectively. If we fail to do so, our business could be materially harmed.   Our continued growth will require increased investment by us in technology, facilities, personnel, and financial and management systems and controls. It also will require expansion of our procedures for monitoring and assuring our compliance with applicable regulations, and we will need to integrate, train and manage a growing employee base. The expansion of our existing businesses, any expansion into new businesses and the resulting growth of our employee base will increase our need for internal audit and monitoring processes that are more extensive and broader in scope than those we have historically required. We may not be successful in identifying or implementing all of the processes that are necessary. Further, unless our growth results in an increase in our revenues that is proportionate to the increase in our costs associated with this growth, our operating margins and profitability will be adversely affected.   We have limited experience in operating as a for-profit exchange.   From the formation of CBOE in 1973 until its change to a for-profit business model at the beginning of 2006, CBOE operated as a member-owned organization essentially on a break-even basis and for the benefit of its members. In that capacity, CBOE’s business decisions were focused not on maximizing its own profitability but on delivering member benefits and enhancing member opportunity at reasonable cost in conformity with its obligations under the Exchange Act. Beginning in 2006, CBOE began operating its business on a for-profit basis for the long-term benefit of its owners rather than primarily for the purpose of delivering member benefits and enhancing member opportunities. CBOE’s management, therefore, has limited experience operating a for-profit business. Consequently, CBOE’s continued transition to for-profit operations will be subject to risks, expenses and difficulties that we cannot predict.   We depend on third party service providers for certain services that are important to our business. An interruption or cessation of such service by any third party could have a material adverse effect on our business.   We depend on a number of service providers, including banking and clearing organizations such as the OCC and its member clearing firms; processors of market information such as the Consolidated Tape Association and OPRA; and various vendors of communications and networking products and services. We cannot assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient manner or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. An interruption or malfunction in or the cessation of an important service by any third party and our inability to make alternative arrangements in a timely manner, or at all, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results.   If our risk management methods are not effective, our business, reputation and financial results may be adversely affected.   We have methods to identify, monitor and manage our risks; however, these methods may not be fully effective. Some of our risk management methods may depend upon evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters that are publicly    41      Table of Contents   available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. If our methods are not fully effective or we are not always successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed, our business, reputation, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our insurance policies may not provide adequate coverage.   Current economic conditions could make it difficult for us to finance our future operations.   Companies in many different industries have recently found it difficult to borrow money from banks and other lending sources, and have also experienced difficulty raising funds in the capital markets. Continued instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, may affect our cost of capital and our ability to raise capital. Although we have no current need for additional financing, if we need to raise funds in the future, our ability to do so could be impaired if rating agencies, lenders or investors develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects, or of the prospects for our industry. Although we do not currently anticipate substantial difficulties in accessing the bank lending or debt capital markets when needed, if difficult market conditions continue or if a negative perception of our financial prospects were to develop, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all.   We may selectively explore acquisition opportunities or strategic alliances relating to other businesses, products or technologies. We may not be successful in identifying opportunities or integrating other businesses, products or technologies successfully with our business. Any such transaction also may not produce the results we anticipate.   We may selectively explore and pursue acquisition and other opportunities to strengthen our business and grow our company. We may enter into business combination transactions, make acquisitions or enter into strategic partnerships, joint ventures or alliances, any of which may be material. We may enter into these transactions to acquire other businesses, products or technologies to expand our products and services, advance our technology or take advantage of new developments and potential changes in the industry.   The market for acquisition targets and strategic alliances is highly competitive, particularly in light of ongoing consolidation in the exchange sector. As a result, we may be unable to identify strategic opportunities or we may be unable to negotiate or finance future acquisitions successfully. Further, our competitors could merge, making it more difficult for us to find appropriate entities to acquire or merge with and making it more difficult to compete in our industry due to the increased resources of our merged competitors. If we are required to raise capital by incurring additional debt or issuing additional equity for any reason in connection with a strategic acquisition or investment, financing may not be available or the terms of such financing may not be favorable to us.   The process of integration may produce unforeseen regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert the attention of management from the ongoing operation of our business. Further, as a result of any future acquisition or strategic transaction, we may issue additional shares of our common stock that dilute stockholders’ ownership interest in us, expend cash, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or create additional expenses related to amortizing intangible assets with estimable useful lives, any of which could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations and negatively impact our stock price.   We may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings, growth opportunities and synergies and other benefits anticipated from mergers and acquisitions or strategic transactions, which could adversely affect the market price of our unrestricted common stock.   Integration of companies is complex and time consuming, and requires substantial resources and effort. If we engage in a merger or acquisition, we must successfully combine the businesses in a manner that permits the expected cost savings and synergies to be realized. In addition, we must achieve the anticipated savings and synergies without adversely affecting current revenues and our investments in future growth. The integration process and other disruptions resulting from the mergers or acquisitions may also disrupt each company’s ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect our relationships with market participants, employees, regulators and others with whom we have business or other dealings or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger or acquisition. In addition, difficulties in integrating the businesses or any negative impact on the regulatory functions of any of our companies could harm the reputation of the companies. We may not successfully achieve the integration objectives, and we may not realize the anticipated cost savings, revenue growth and synergies in full or at all, or it may take longer to realize them than expected, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or the market price of our unrestricted common stock.   42      Table of Contents   Any decision to pay dividends on CBOE Holdings common stock will be at the discretion of the CBOE Holdings board of directors. The ability of CBOE Holdings to pay dividends will depend upon the earnings of its operating subsidiaries. Accordingly, there can be no guarantee that CBOE Holdings will, or will be able to, pay dividends to its stockholders.   We intend to pay regular quarterly dividends to our stockholders, with an annual dividend target of approximately 20% to 30% of the prior year’s net income adjusted for unusual items. However, any decision to pay dividends on CBOE Holdings’ common stock will be at the discretion of its board of directors, which may determine not to declare dividends at all or at a reduced percentage of the prior year’s adjusted net income, as conditions warrant. The board’s determination to declare dividends will depend upon the profitability and financial condition of CBOE Holdings and its subsidiaries, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and the SEC and other factors that the CBOE Holdings board of directors deems relevant. As a holding company with no significant business operations of its own, CBOE Holdings will depend entirely on distributions, if any, it may receive from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations and pay dividends to its stockholders. If these subsidiaries are not profitable, or even if they are and they determine to retain their profits for use in their businesses, CBOE Holdings will be unable to pay dividends to its stockholders.   Risks Relating to Litigation and Regulation   Any infringement by us on patent rights of others could result in litigation and could have a material adverse effect on our operations.   Our competitors as well as other companies and individuals have obtained, and may be expected to obtain in the future, patents that concern products or services related to the types of products and services we offer or plan to offer. We may not be aware of all patents containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by our products, services or technologies. In addition, some patent applications in the United States are confidential until a patent is issued, and therefore we cannot evaluate the extent to which our products and services may be covered or asserted to be covered in pending patent applications. Thus, we cannot be sure that our products and services do not infringe on the rights of others or that others will not make claims of infringement against us. Claims of infringement are not uncommon in our industry. For instance, in a lawsuit filed on November 22, 2006, ISE claims that the CBOE’s hybrid trading system infringes ISE’s patent directed towards an automated exchange for trading derivative securities. If our hybrid trading system or one or more of our other products, services or technologies were determined to infringe a patent held by another party, we may be required to stop developing or marketing those products, services or technologies, to obtain a license to develop and market those services from the holders of the patents or to redesign those products, services or technologies in such a way as to avoid infringing the patent. If we were required to stop developing or marketing certain products, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially harmed. Moreover, if we were unable to obtain required licenses, we may not be able to redesign our products, services or technologies to avoid infringement, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. For a discussion of patent litigation involving the CBOE, please see “Part II— Item 1—Legal Proceedings.”   We are subject to significant risks of litigation.   Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of litigation. We could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those we believe are without merit. An adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or operating results. We are currently subject to various litigation matters. For a discussion of litigation involving the CBOE, please see “Part II— Item 1—Legal Proceedings.”   The CBOE operates in a highly regulated industry and may be subject to censures, fines and other legal proceedings if it fails to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations.   The CBOE is a registered national securities exchange and self-regulatory organization, or SRO, and, as such, is subject to comprehensive regulation by the SEC. The CBOE’s ability to comply with applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on its establishment and maintenance of appropriate systems and procedures, as well as its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. The SEC has broad powers to audit, investigate and enforce compliance and to punish noncompliance by SROs with the Exchange    43      Table of Contents   Act, the SEC’s rules and regulations under the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the SRO. If the SEC were to find the CBOE’s program of enforcement and compliance to be deficient, the CBOE could be the subject of SEC investigations and enforcement proceedings that may result in substantial sanctions, including revocation of its registration as a national securities exchange. Any such investigations or proceedings, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and potential harm to CBOE’s reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, although CBOE intends to retain its responsibilities as an SRO, it may be required to modify or restructure its regulatory functions in response to any changes in the regulatory environment, or it may be required to rely on third parties to perform regulatory and oversight functions, each of which may require us to incur substantial expenses and may harm our reputation if our regulatory services are deemed inadequate.   Although CBOE Holdings itself will not be an SRO, CBOE Holdings, as the parent company of the CBOE following the restructuring transaction, will be subject to regulation by the SEC of its activities that involve the CBOE because CBOE Holdings will control the CBOE. Specifically, the SEC will exercise oversight over the governance of CBOE Holdings and its relationship with the CBOE.   Legislative or regulatory changes, particularly in response to adverse financial conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our business.   In recent years, the securities trading industry and, in particular, the securities markets have been subject to significant regulatory changes. Moreover, in the past two years, the securities markets have been the subject of increasing government and public scrutiny in response to the global economic crisis.   During the coming year, it is likely that there will be legislative changes and changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate our businesses, although we cannot predict the nature of these changes or their impact on our business at this time. For example, the SEC published a concept release early in 2010 related to trading in equity markets that could result in changes in the competitive landscape in the options market. Actions on any of the specific regulatory issues currently under review in the U.S., such as fee caps, co-location, high-frequency trading, derivatives clearing, market transparency, taxes on stock transactions, restrictions on proprietary trading by certain of our customers and other related proposals could have a material impact on our business.   CBOE and our market participants also operate in a highly regulated industry. Congress, the SEC and other regulatory authorities could impose legislative or regulatory changes that could adversely impact the ability of our market participants to use our markets. Legislative and regulatory changes by Congress, the SEC or other regulatory authorities could result in the loss of a significant number of market participants or a reduction in trading activity on our markets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.   Potential conflicts of interest between our for-profit status and our regulatory responsibilities may adversely affect our business.   As a for-profit business with regulatory responsibilities, there may be a conflict of interest between the regulatory responsibilities of the CBOE and the interests of some of its customers. Any failure by the CBOE to diligently and fairly regulate or to otherwise fulfill its regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt regulatory scrutiny and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.   Our compliance methods might not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.   Our ability to comply with applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, audit and reporting systems, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. Our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage compliance risks may not be fully effective. Management of legal and regulatory risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to properly monitor, record and verify a large number of transactions and events. We cannot assure you that our policies and procedures will always be effective or that we will always be successful in monitoring or evaluating the compliance risks to which we are or may be exposed.   44      Table of Contents   As a regulated entity, CBOE’s ability to implement or amend rules could be limited or delayed, which could negatively affect its ability to implement needed changes.   The CBOE must submit proposed rule changes to the SEC for its review and, in many cases, its approval. Even where a proposed rule change may be effective upon its filing with the SEC, the SEC retains the right to abrogate such rule changes. The SEC review process can be lengthy and can significantly delay the implementation of proposed rule changes that the CBOE believes are necessary to the operation of our markets. If the SEC refuses to approve a proposed rule change or delays its approval, this could negatively affect the ability of the CBOE to make needed changes or implement business decisions.   Similarly, the SEC must approve amendments to the CBOE’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws as well as certain amendments to the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of CBOE Holdings. The SEC may not approve a proposed amendment or may delay such approval in a manner that could negatively affect CBOE’s or CBOE Holdings’ ability to make a desired change.   Misconduct by members or others could harm us.   Although the CBOE performs significant self-regulatory functions, we run the risk that the members of the CBOE, other persons who use our markets or our employees will engage in fraud or other misconduct, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to deter misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases.   Your ownership of CBOE Holdings may be diluted if additional capital stock is issued to raise capital, to finance acquisitions or in connection with strategic transactions.   CBOE Holdings may seek to raise additional funds, finance acquisitions or develop strategic relationships by issuing equity or convertible debt securities in addition to the shares issued in our initial public offering, which would reduce the percentage ownership of existing CBOE Holdings stockholders. Following the restructuring transaction, the CBOE Holdings board of directors will have the authority, without action or vote of the stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes 325,000,000 shares of unrestricted common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Following the issuance of the Class A common stock in the restructuring transaction, the issuance of the Class B common stock under the Settlement Agreement, the issuance of shares of unrestricted common stock as restricted stock grants under the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the issuance of unrestricted common stock in our initial public offering and the conversion of the Class A and Class B common stock into Class A-1 and Class A-2 common stock and into unrestricted common stock for purposes of being sold in our initial public offering by the selling stockholders, 311,082,089 shares of unrestricted common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock will be authorized and unissued. However, to the extent the outstanding shares of Class A-1 and Class A-2 common stock are converted into unrestricted common stock upon the expiration of the applicable transfer restrictions, the number of authorized and unissued shares of unrestricted common stock will be reduced. Future issuances of common or preferred stock would reduce your influence over matters on which stockholders vote and would be dilutive to earnings per share. In addition, any newly issued preferred stock could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the CBOE Holdings’ common stock. Those rights, preferences and privileges could include, among other things, the establishment of dividends that must be paid prior to declaring or paying dividends or other distributions to holders of our common stock, greater or preferential liquidation rights, which could negatively affect the rights of holders of our common stock, and the right to convert such preferred stock into shares of our unrestricted common stock at a rate or price which would have a dilutive effect on the outstanding shares of our unrestricted common stock.   The sale of large amounts of our unrestricted common stock following the automatic conversion of our Class A-1 and A-2 common stock into shares of unrestricted common stock may have an adverse impact on the market price of our unrestricted common stock.   Our shares of Class A-1 and Class A-2 common stock are subject to significant transfer restrictions. These transfer restrictions, however, expire on the 180-day and 360-day anniversary of the closing of our initial public offering, respectively. Upon expiration of these restrictions, the shares of Class A-1 and Class A-2 common stock held by existing stockholders will automatically convert into shares of unrestricted common stock, and will be freely transferable unless the shares are held by “affiliates” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. If our stockholders sell a large number of shares of our unrestricted common stock upon the expiration of the applicable transfer restrictions and the conversion of the Class A-1 or Class A-2 shares into shares of unrestricted common stock, the market price for our unrestricted common stock could decline significantly.   45      Table of Contents   Immediately following our initial public offering, our stockholders who obtain trading permits will own a substantial portion of our voting stock. The share ownership of our trading permit holders could be used to influence how our business is operated to the detriment of the holders of our unrestricted common stock who purchase shares in this offering.   Our stockholders who are also trading permit holders may have interests that differ from or conflict with those of stockholders who are not trading permit holders. Following the closing of our initial public offering, stockholders who are trading permit holders will own a substantial portion of our voting stock. As a result, they could exert substantial influence over the operation of our business.   Many of our trading permit holders derive a substantial portion of their income from their trading on or through the Exchange. The amount of income that members derive from their trading activities is in part dependent on the fees they are charged to trade and access our markets and the rules and structure of our markets. Our trading permit holders, many of whom act as floor brokers and floor traders, benefit from trading rules, access privileges and fee discounts that enhance their trading opportunities and profits. As a result, holders of our unrestricted common stock may not have the same economic interests as our trading permit holders. Consequently, trading permit holders may advocate that we enhance and protect their trading opportunities and the value they receive through the use of their trading permits over their economic interest in us represented by the unrestricted common stock they own. The share ownership of our trading permit holders could be used to influence how our business is changed or developed, including how we address competition and how we seek to grow our volume and revenue and enhance stockholder value.   Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds