Item 1A. Risk FactorsOther than as described below, there have been no material updates to the Risk Factors as set forth in Item 1A. of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on March 16, 2011. In addition to the other information contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us. The ongoing uncertainty and volatility in the markets stemming from the U.S. budget deficit, the European debt crisis, and the status of the U.S. economic recovery may negatively impact our business. Investors have grown increasingly concerned due to the issues related to the U.S. budget deficit, solvency problems in several European countries and the slowdown of the U.S. economic recovery. The U.S. government recently approved an increase to the debt ceiling and approved spending cuts to reduce the deficit. The U.S. government received its first ever ratings downgrade, from AAA to AA+ by S&P, creating additional volatility in the treasury market. S&P and the other rating agencies have indicated that they will continue to review the government's fiscal policy and its implementation of the proposed spending cuts. To the extent the global markets continue to experience uncertainty, our business may be negatively impacted: •We generate revenues primarily from transaction fees. Declines in trading volumes and market liquidity stemming from this market uncertainty would adversely affect our business and financial condition.•The required capital and posted collateral of our clearing firms may lose value given the volatility of the market. To become a clearing member, a firm must meet certain minimum capital requirements and must deposit a certain amount of funds to meet performance bond and guaranty fund requirements with the OCC, the financial clearing house for all option trading in the U.S., as collateral for their trading activity. The OCC accepts a variety of collateral to satisfy those requirements, including U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. Government Agency securities and foreign sovereign debt. Given the level of market volatility, there is no guarantee that these investments will continue to maintain their value. To the extent a clearing firm is not in compliance with their collateral requirements, it would be required to acquire additional funds, decrease its proprietary trading activity and/or transfer customer accounts to another clearing firm. These actions could result in a decrease in trading activity in our products.  32Table of ContentsS&P has cut ratings on the top U.S. financial clearing houses, including OCC, reflecting “potential incremental shifts in the macroeconomic environment and the long-term stability of the U.S. capital markets as a consequence of the decline in the creditworthiness of the federal government.” Collateral held by the OCC is important in balancing counterparty risk. If the OCC is required to adjust the value of U.S. Treasury securities held as collateral, this may negatively impact overall options trading volume and would adversely affect our business and financial condition. Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds