Item 1A. Risk FactorsOther than the risk factor listed below, there have been no material updates to the Risk Factors as set forth in Item 1A. of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013. Legislative or regulatory changes affecting the listed options market could have a material adverse effect on our business.Changes in regulation by the SEC, CFTC or other government action, including SEC approval of rule filings by other SROs or entities, including OCC, could materially affect our markets. In recent years, the securities and futures industries have been subject to significant regulatory changes as a result of increasing government and public scrutiny in response to the global economic crisis.In 2010, Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act and other legislation. While many of its requirements are in the process of being implemented, some of the provisions in Dodd-Frank that impact our markets require additional action by the SEC or the CFTC. Depending on how the SEC and CFTC interpret and implement these laws, exchanges like ours could be subject to increased competition and additional costs. We could also see reduced trading by our customers due to margin or other requirements placed on them.Under the Collins Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, starting in 2015, U.S. banks will be required to use a new approach in order to compute their risk weighted assets, which include exchange-traded options and futures. This is expected to increase the capital requirements for U.S. bank holding companies, and bank subsidiaries involved in the trading and clearing of derivatives. These increased capital requirements may cause bank-affiliated broker-dealers to reduce their trading in, or charge their customers more to trade, our options and futures.In 2012, the SEC directed the self-regulatory agencies to submit a plan to create, implement and maintain a consolidated audit trail, which would serve as a comprehensive audit trail of orders that will allow regulators to efficiently and accurately track all activity in Regulation NMS securities in the U.S. market. In addition to increased regulatory obligations, implementation of a consolidated audit trail could result in significant additional expenditures, including to implement any new technology to meet any plan's requirements. The SEC has also proposed Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity ("Reg SCI") and has established working groups of exchanges to focus on improving market resiliency. The adoption of Reg SCI or other regulations or mandates generated by these working groups could result in significant additional expenses, including for technology and compliance.It is also possible that there will be additional legislative and regulatory changes or efforts in the environment in which we operate our businesses, including in response to recent incidents that have disrupted operations on exchanges, although we cannot predict the nature of these changes or their impact on our business at this time. Actions on any of the specific regulatory issues currently under review in the U.S. and other proposals could have a material impact on our business. For a discussion of the regulatory environment in which we operate and proposed regulatory changes, see "Business-Regulatory Environment and Compliance" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013. 30Table of ContentsIn addition, Congress, the SEC and other regulatory authorities could impose legislative or regulatory changes that could adversely impact the ability of our market participants to use our markets, or participate in the options or futures industry at all. Any such changes could result in the loss of a significant number of market participants or a reduction in trading activity on our markets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes or proposed changes in regulation may also result in additional costs of compliance and modification of market participants' trading activity on our exchanges. Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds