Item 1A. Risk FactorsOther than the risk factor listed below, there have been no material updates to the Risk Factors as set forth in Item 1A. of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. If one or more of the index providers from which we have licenses or service providers with respect to proprietary products fails to maintain the quality and integrity of their indexes or fails to perform under our agreements with them or if customer preferences change, revenues we generate from trading in these proprietary products may suffer.We are a party to an increasing number of license agreements pursuant to which we may list for trading securities options on various indexes including license agreements that we have with S&P OPCO LLC (“S&P”), for the S&P 500 Index and S&P 100 Index, and S&P Dow Jones Indices, LLC, for the Dow Jones Industrial Average, and license agreements we have recently entered into with FTSE International Limited and the Frank Russell Company, for more than two dozen FTSE and Russell indexes, and MSCI Inc., for six MSCI indexes, including the MSCI EAFE Index and MSCI Emerging Markets Index. These license agreements provide, among other things, that we are authorized to list options on their indexes, and some of the resulting index options are among the most actively traded products at CBOE. The quality and integrity of each of these indexes are dependent on the ability of the index providers to maintain the index, including by means of the calculation and rebalancing of the index, and we are dependent on the index providers for a number of things, including the provision of index data to us. We also rely on index providers to enforce intellectual property rights against unlicensed uses of the indexes and uses of the indexes that infringe on our licenses. Furthermore, some of our agreements concerning our proprietary products provide for the parties to those agreements to provide important services to us. If any of our index providers are unable to 27Table of Contents maintain the quality and integrity of their indexes, or if any of the index providers or service providers fail to perform their obligations under the agreements, trading in these products, and therefore transaction fees we receive, may be adversely affected or we may not receive the financial benefits of the agreements that we negotiated. In addition, the indexes underlying certain of our proprietary products may be licensed for use in over-the-counter options, and options on ETFs and ETNs that have licenses on these indexes are available for trading. Trading in our proprietary products could decrease as a result of competitive pressures from these products.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds