Item 1A. Risk FactorsCBOE Holdings and Bats Global Markets, Inc. (“Bats”) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 25, 2016 (as maybe amended from time to time, the “Merger Agreement”), providing, among other things, that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, CBOE Corporation (“Merger Sub”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of CBOE Holdings will merge with and into Bats, with Bats surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of CBOE Holdings (the “Merger”). The Merger Agreement also provides that, immediately following the effective time of the Merger, Bats, as the surviving corporation from the Merger, will merge with and into CBOE V, LLC (“Merger LLC”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of CBOE Holdings, Inc. (the “Subsequent Merger”), with Merger LLC surviving the Subsequent Merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of CBOE Holdings. Investors should consider the following risk factors relating to the Merger.Other than the risk factors listed below, there have been no material updates to the Risk Factors as set forth in Item 1A. of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.Risks Relating to the MergerFailure to complete the proposed Merger within the expected timeframe or at all could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.There can be no assurance that the Merger will occur. The closing of the Merger is subject to certain conditions, including, among others, (i) the adoption of the Merger Agreement by the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of Bats common stock entitled to vote thereon, (ii) approval of the issuance of shares of our common stock in the Merger by the holders of at least a majority of the shares of our common stock entitled to vote thereon and present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting of our stockholders called for such purpose, (iii) the expiration or earlier termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and regulatory approval by the SEC, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, (iv) no court order or other legal restraint or prohibition preventing the consummation of the Merger or the Subsequent Merger or imposing a “burdensome effect” (as defined in the Merger Agreement) upon the consummation thereof, (v) the absence of any pending action commenced by a governmental or regulatory body wherein a judgment would reasonably be expected to prevent the consummation of the Merger or the Subsequent Merger or impose a burdensome effect upon the consummation thereof, (vi) receipt of tax opinions from counsel to each of us and Bats with respect to the treatment of the Merger and Subsequent Merger  39Table of Contentsfrom a tax perspective, (vii) in the case of our obligation to effect the Merger, no exercise of appraisal rights by Bats stockholders holding more than 20% of the outstanding shares of Bats common stock, (viii) in the case of each party’s obligation to effect the Merger, the absence of a material adverse effect with respect to the other party since the date of the Merger Agreement and (ix) subject to materiality exceptions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties made by us, Merger Sub and Merger LLC, on the one hand, and Bats, on the other hand, and compliance by us, Merger Sub, Merger LLC and Bats in all material respects with our and their respective obligations under the Merger Agreement. There can be no assurance that the conditions to the closing of the Merger will be satisfied in a timely matter or at all.In particular, before the proposed transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, including the Merger, may be completed, various clearances and approvals must be obtained from certain regulatory and governmental authorities. These regulatory and governmental entities may impose conditions on the granting of such approvals. Such conditions and the process of obtaining regulatory approvals could have the effect of delaying completion of the Merger or of imposing additional costs or limitations on the combined company following the Merger. The regulatory approvals may not be received at all, may not be received in a timely fashion and may contain conditions on the completion of the Merger. However, if any such conditions impose a “burdensome effect” as defined in the Merger Agreement, the parties may not be obligated to complete the Merger, and either Bats or we may have the right to terminate the Merger Agreement. In addition, our and Bats’ obligations to complete the Merger are conditioned on the receipt of certain regulatory approvals or waiver by the other party of such condition.Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact our stock price and future businesses and financial results.If the Merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected, and we will be subject to several risks and consequences, including the following:•we may be required, under certain circumstances, to pay Bats a termination fee of $110 million or reimburse Bats’ expenses up to $10 million under the Merger Agreement;•we will be required to pay certain costs relating to the Merger, whether or not the Merger is completed, such as legal, accounting, financial advisory and printing fees;•under the Merger Agreement, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completing the Merger that may adversely affect our ability to execute certain of our business strategies; and•matters relating to the Merger may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us as an independent company and such commitments may impact future earnings of the combined company.In addition, if the Merger is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from our customers and employees. We also could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the Merger or to enforcement proceedings commenced against us to perform our obligations under the Merger Agreement. If the Merger is not completed, we cannot assure our stockholders that the risks described above will not materialize and will not materially adversely affect our business, financial results and stock prices.The announcement and pendency of the Merger may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on our employees, customers, and other parties may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation regardless of whether the Merger is completed. These risks to our business include the following, all of which could be exacerbated by a delay in the completion of the Merger:▪the impairment of our ability to attract, retain and motivate our employees, including key personnel;▪the diversion of significant management time and resources towards the completion of the Merger;▪difficulties maintaining relationships with customers and other business partners;▪delays or deferments of certain business decisions by our customers and other business partners;▪the inability to pursue alternative business opportunities or make appropriate changes to our business because of requirements in the Merger Agreement that we conduct our business in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and not engage in certain kinds of transactions prior to the completion of the Merger;▪litigation relating to the Merger and the costs related thereto; and▪the incurrence of significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the Merger. 40Table of ContentsIf our financing for the Merger becomes unavailable, the Merger may not be completed.We intend to finance all or a portion of the cash component of the Merger consideration with debt financing, which may include a senior unsecured 364-day bridge loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $1.65 billion, or permanent financing including in the form of a senior unsecured term loan facility and the issuance of senior unsecured notes on or prior to effective time of the Merger. There are a number of conditions in the commitment letter (the “Debt Commitment Letter”) among us, Bank of America, N.A. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (or any of its designated affiliates) that must be satisfied or waived in order for closing of the debt financing to occur. There is a risk that these conditions will not be satisfied. In the event that the financing contemplated by the Debt Commitment Letter is not available, we may be required to obtain alternative financing on terms that are less favorable to us than those in the Debt Commitment Letter. In addition, any alternative financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. While obtaining financing is not a condition to our obligation to effect the Merger under the Merger Agreement, if other financing becomes necessary and we are unable to secure such other financing, the Merger may not be completed.We expect to incur substantial indebtedness to finance the Merger, which may decrease our business flexibility and adversely affect our financial results.In addition to using cash on hand at CBOE Holdings and Bats, we expect to incur indebtedness of up to approximately $1.65 billion to finance a portion of the cash component of the Merger consideration, to refinance existing indebtedness of Bats and its subsidiaries and to pay related fees and expenses. Prior to entering into the Merger Agreement, we did not have any indebtedness and were not subject to any financial covenants. The financial and other covenants to which we have agreed or may agree to in connection with the incurrence of new indebtedness, and the combined company’s increased indebtedness may have the effect, among other things, of reducing the combined company’s flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, thereby placing the combined company at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less indebtedness and making the combined company more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions. The combined company’s increased indebtedness will also increase borrowing costs, and the covenants pertaining thereto may also limit the combined company’s ability to repurchase shares of our common stock, increase dividends or obtain additional financing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate requirements. The combined company will also be required to dedicate a larger portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. In addition, the terms and conditions of such debt may not be favorable to the combined company and, as such, could further increase the costs of the Merger, as well as the overall burden of such debt upon the combined company and the combined company’s business flexibility. Further, if any portion of the combined company’s borrowings is at variable rates of interest, the combined company will be exposed to the risk of increased interest rates unless the combined company enters into offsetting hedging transactions.The combined company’s ability to make payments on and to refinance its debt obligations and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on its ability to generate cash from the combined company’s operations. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond the combined company’s control.The combined company may not be able to refinance any of its indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If the combined company cannot service its indebtedness, the combined company may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, any of which could impede the implementation of the combined company’s business strategy or prevent the combined company from entering into transactions that would otherwise benefit its business. Additionally, the combined company may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.Any of the foregoing consequences could adversely affect the combined company’s financial results.Deterioration in our credit profile will increase our costs of borrowing money. We have received an investment grade credit rating from S&P Global Ratings (BBB+) and a provisional investment grade rating from Moody’s Investor Service (Baa1). (Ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.) There is no assurance that we will maintain such credit ratings, since credit ratings may be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. If a rating agency were to downgrade our rating below investment grade, our borrowing costs and the costs of the proposed transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement would increase. Further, the provisional rating from Moody’s Investor Service is based on the assumption that the Merger will close in accordance with the terms of the  41Table of ContentsMerger Agreement. Upon the effective time of the Merger, the provisional rating will be converted to a definitive rating, subject to review of the final terms. There is no assurance that Moody’s Investor Service will assign the same rating to us following the Merger.The Merger Agreement contains provisions that may discourage other companies from trying to acquire us.The Merger Agreement contains provisions that apply both during the pendency of the Merger transaction with Bats as well as afterward should the Merger with Bats not be consummated that may discourage a third party from submitting a business combination proposal to us that might result in greater value to our stockholders than the Merger. These Merger Agreement provisions include a general prohibition on us from soliciting, or, subject to certain exceptions, entering into discussions with any third party regarding any acquisition proposal or offers for competing transactions. In addition, we may be required to pay Bats a $110 million termination fee and reimburse Bats for its expenses incurred in connection with the Merger in an aggregate amount not to exceed $10 million in certain circumstances involving acquisition proposals for competing transactions. The price of our common stock might increase or decline prior to the completion of the Merger, which would change the value of the Merger consideration to be received by Bats stockholders pursuant to the Merger Agreement. The market price of our common stock at the time the Merger is completed may vary significantly from the price on the date of the Merger Agreement. On September 22, 2016, the last full trading day prior to media publications regarding the proposed Merger, our common stock closed at $69.41 per share as reported on NASDAQ, and on September 23, 2016, the last full day of trading prior to the announcement of the Merger Agreement, our common stock closed at $70.30 per share as reported on NASDAQ. If the market price of our common stock increases above $70.30, the market value of the Merger consideration will be greater than $32.50 per share of Bats common stock. If the market price of our common stock decreases significantly prior to the Bats stockholder vote on the adoption of the Merger Agreement, it may be difficult to obtain Bats stockholder approval of any proposal to adopt the Merger Agreement. The issuance of shares of our common stock to Bats stockholders pursuant to the Merger Agreement will substantially reduce the percentage ownership interests of our pre-existing stockholders.Based on the number of shares of our common stock and Bats common stock outstanding on September 23, 2016, immediately following the completion of the Merger, our pre‑existing stockholders and former Bats stockholders would own approximately 72% and 28% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, respectively. The Merger will have no effect on the number of shares of our common stock owned by our existing stockholders. The issuance of shares of our common stock to Bats stockholders and holders of equity incentive awards will cause a significant reduction in the relative percentage interests of our current stockholders in earnings, voting, liquidation value and book and market value. The Merger will result in changes to the board of directors and management of the combined company that may affect the strategy of the combined company as compared to our strategy as a standalone company. If the parties complete the Merger, the composition of our board of directors and our management team will change from our current board and management team. The board of directors of the combined company will consist of 14 members, including three individuals designated by Bats who are serving as Bats directors immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger. We will also have executive officers from both us and Bats. This new composition of our board of directors and our management team may affect the business strategy and operating decisions of the combined company upon the completion of the Merger.We will incur significant transaction and integration costs in connection with the Merger.We and Bats expect to incur a number of costs associated with completing the Merger and integrating the operations of the two companies. The substantial majority of these costs will be non-recurring expenses resulting from the Merger and will consist of transaction costs related to the Merger, facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment‑related costs. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our businesses with Bats’ businesses. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, will offset incremental transaction and Merger-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all.We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement or such benefits may take longer to realize than expected.The success of the Merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from combining our  42Table of Contentsbusinesses with Bats’ businesses. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate our businesses with Bats’ businesses. The combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, the combined company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating our business practices and operations with those of Bats. The integration process may disrupt the business of either or both of the companies and, if implemented ineffectively, could preclude realization of the full benefits expected by us. The failure of the combined company to meet the challenges involved in integrating successfully our operations with those of Bats or otherwise to realize the anticipated benefits of the proposed transactions could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined company and could seriously harm its results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the two companies may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of client relationships and diversion of management’s attention, and may cause the combined company’s stock price to decline. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others:•unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems;•unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the integration or the Merger;•managing a significantly larger company;•the potential diversion of management focus and resources from other strategic opportunities and from operational matters, and potential disruption associated with the Merger;•maintaining employee morale and retaining key management and other key employees;•integrating two unique business cultures, which may prove to be incompatible;•the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process and expense synergies;•consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations;•coordinating geographically separate organizations;•changes in applicable laws and regulations;•managing costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company; and•making any necessary modifications to internal financial control standards to comply with the Sarbanes‑Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if Bats’ and our operations are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the proposed transactions, including the synergies, cost savings or growth opportunities that we expect. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. As a result, we cannot assure you that the combination of Bats with us will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement.A failure to integrate successfully or a material disruption in information technology systems could adversely affect the combined company’s business and results of operations.The combined company will rely extensively on its information technology systems. The failure of information technology systems to operate effectively, difficulty in integrating our information technology systems with Bats’ information technology systems, inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies and problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems could adversely impact the business of the combined company. In addition, a number of our trading permit holders are not connected to Bats’ information technology platforms and must complete the process of connecting to these platforms as part of the integration.The process of integrating information technology systems may take longer, cost more and provide fewer synergies than initially anticipated. There may also be new regulations adopted during the transition period that require systems changes, which could divert attention away from integration process and cause delays. To the extent this occurs, the benefits of the proposed transaction may be reduced or delayed or may never come to fruition. Although Bats has experience with transitioning other businesses to its information technology platform, there are certain portions of our business, such as open outcry trading and complex order trading, that have not yet been addressed by Bats’ information technology platform.  43Table of ContentsWe currently expect to complete the integration of our information technology systems with those of Bats in phases over a four-year period following the Merger. However, we may not be able to successfully achieve the transition on the timetable currently contemplated, and the transition may not be successful or could encounter various difficulties and unexpected issues. Any delays or issues that we encounter in the transition could have a material adverse effect on the businesses of the combined company and could negatively affect our reputation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the combined company’s overall business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as impair customer confidence in the combined company’s product offerings and overall services.If the combined company is unable to manage its growth, its business and financial results could suffer.The combined company’s future financial results will depend in part on its ability to manage its core businesses, including any growth that the combined company may be able to achieve. Over the past several years, we and Bats have each engaged in the identification of, and competition for, growth and expansion opportunities. In order to achieve those initiatives, the combined company will need to, among other things, recruit, train, retain and effectively manage employees and expand its operations and financial control systems. If the combined company is unable to manage its businesses effectively and profitably, its business and financial results could suffer.To be successful, the combined company must retain and motivate key employees, including those experienced with post-acquisition integration, and failure to do so could seriously harm the combined company. The success of the combined company largely depends on the skills, experience and continued efforts of management and other key personnel. As a result, to be successful, the combined company must retain and motivate executives and other key employees. In particular, the combined company expects to benefit from the integration experience of certain Bats personnel. Certain key executives of Bats have executed offer letters with us to continue their employment following the Merger. However, these executives will continue to be at‑will employees, and the offer letters provide no assurance that these executives will remain with the combined company. Additionally, certain of our information technology employees will be important to retain during the transition period to effectively manage our information technology platforms and to assist Bats in the process of integrating its information technology platform. If these personnel were to leave, the combined company may experience increased difficulty in the post-Merger integration process and may not be able to adequately replace such personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on the combined company’s overall business, results of operations and financial condition.Our and Bats’ employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company until integration strategies for the combined company are announced or executed. These circumstances may adversely affect the combined company’s ability to retain key personnel. The combined company also must continue to motivate employees and maintain their focus on the strategies and goals of the combined company. Doing so may be difficult due to the uncertainty and challenges associated with post-Merger integration. If the combined company is unable to retain executives and other key employees, the roles and responsibilities of such executive officers and employees will need to be filled either by existing or new officers and employees, which may require the combined company to devote time and resources to identifying, hiring and integrating replacements for the departed executives and employees that could otherwise be used to integrate our and Bats’ businesses or otherwise pursue business opportunities. There can be no assurance that the combined company will be able to retain and motivate its employees in the same manner as we and Bats have historically done.The combined company may need to hire additional personnel in order to assist with the transition of our businesses to the Bats information technology platform. It may be difficult for the combined company to retain and recruit qualified employees in sufficient numbers, and if the combined company is unable to satisfy its needs for qualified and capable employees, its business and operating results could be adversely affected.There is substantial competition for qualified and capable personnel in the technology space, which may make it difficult for the combined company to retain and recruit qualified employees in sufficient numbers. Increased difficulty in retaining or recruiting sufficient and qualified personnel by the combined company may lead to increased employment compensation costs, which could adversely affect the combined company’s results of operations. In addition, the increased number of employees may impose a significant administrative burden on the combined company. If the combined company is unable to retain and recruit highly qualified employees by offering competitive compensation, stable work environment and leadership opportunities now and in the future, the combined company’s business and operating results could be negatively impacted.Bats generates a significant percentage of its total revenues from, and is provided with significant liquidity in its markets and other services by, entities who are affiliates of its significant stockholders, and there is no assurance that such entities will continue to generate such revenue or provide such liquidity and other services after the completion of the Merger. 44Table of ContentsBats earns a significant percentage of its revenue from customers who are affiliates of its significant stockholders. In addition, Bats relies on certain entities who are affiliates of significant Bats stockholders to route orders that are not routed directly by Bats and to clear certain trades routed to other markets. The significant stockholders of Bats may not receive shares of our common stock in the Merger, or even if they do, their proportionate stake in the combined company will be significantly less than their stake in Bats prior to the Merger, so there may be less incentive for the affiliates of Bats’ significant stockholders to maintain their current business relationships with the combined company following the Merger at current levels or at all. If the affiliates of Bats’ significant stockholders do not remain customers following the Merger at current levels or at all or if any of the affiliates of Bats’ significant stockholders do not continue to route and clear trades as they did prior to the Merger, the combined company may experience decreased revenues and business interruptions, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition of the combined company. The combined company will record goodwill and intangible assets that could become impaired and adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition.Accounting standards in the United States require that one party to the Merger be identified as the acquirer. In accordance with these standards, the Merger will be accounted for as an acquisition of Bats by us and will follow the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations. The assets and liabilities of Bats will be consolidated with our assets and liabilities. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of Bats’ assets and liabilities, if any, will be recorded as goodwill. We will be required to assess goodwill and intangible assets for impairment at least annually. In the future we may take charges against earnings resulting from impairment. Any determination requiring the write off of a significant portion of our goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.The Merger may not be accretive and may cause dilution to our earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock.We currently anticipate that the Merger will be accretive to adjusted earnings per share in the first year following the completion of the Merger. This expectation is based on preliminary estimates, which may materially change. We could also encounter additional transaction and integration‑related costs or other factors such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the Merger. All of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the Merger and cause a decrease in the price of our common stock.The combined company will indirectly hold 100% of the issued share capital and voting rights in Bats Trading Limited (“BTL”) and its wholly owned subsidiary, Chi-X Europe Limited (“Chi-X Europe”). As a result, any person who holds, or has voting power with respect to, 10% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock following the effective time of the Merger, will be subject to certain regulatory requirements under United Kingdom law. A person that indirectly acquires control in a Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) entity is required to file a change in control notice with the FCA. Though both are FCA regulated entities, the statutorily prescribed change in control notification threshold for BTL is acquisition of voting power with respect to 20% or more of the issued share capital thereof. The change in control notification threshold for Chi-X Europe is acquisition of voting power with respect to 10% or more of the issued share capital thereof. Therefore, any person who holds, or has voting power with respect to, 10% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock will be required to file a change in control notice in respect of Chi-X Europe and, if this holding is in excess of 20%, also for BTL. This obligation may discourage, delay or prevent accumulations of 10% or more of our common stock.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds