Item 1A. Risk FactorsOther than the risk factor listed below, there have been no material updates to the Risk Factors as set forth in Item 1A. of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Legislative or regulatory changes affecting the listed options or futures markets could have a material adverse effect on our business.Changes in regulation by the SEC, CFTC, foreign regulators or other government action, including SEC approval of rule filings by other SROs or entities, including OCC, could materially affect our markets. In recent years, the securities and futures industries have been subject to significant regulatory changes as a result of regulatory reforms in response to the global economic crisis. In 2010, Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act and other legislation. While many of its requirements have been implemented or are in the process of being implemented, some of the provisions in Dodd-Frank that impact our markets require additional action by the SEC or the CFTC. Depending on how the SEC and CFTC interpret and implement these laws, exchanges like ours could be subject to increased competition and additional costs. We could also see reduced trading by our customers due to increased margin or other requirements.Under the Collins Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, starting in 2015, U.S. banks were required to use a new approach in order to compute their risk weighted assets, which include exchange-traded options and futures. This, and other rulemaking, may lead to further increases in capital requirements for U.S. bank holding companies, and bank subsidiaries involved in the trading and clearing of derivatives. These increased capital requirements may reduce trading in options and futures due to bank-affiliated broker-dealers reducing their own trading, charging their customers more to trade or reducing the number of certain customers.In 2016, the SEC published a proposed plan by self-regulatory organizations ("SROs") responding to a 2012 SEC directive that SROs submit a plan to create, implement and maintain a consolidated audit trail, which would serve as a comprehensive audit trail of orders that will allow regulators to efficiently and accurately track all activity in Regulation NMS securities in the U.S. market. In addition to increased regulatory obligations, implementation of a consolidated audit trail could result in significant additional expenditures, including to implement any new technology to meet any plan's requirements. 36Table of ContentsUnder European Union ("EU") regulations, European banks and other European financial institutions become subject to punitive capital charges if they transact options or futures through a non-qualifying clearinghouse. OCC, our clearinghouse for options and futures, is not currently recognized as a qualified clearinghouse by the EU. The current deadline for the EU to qualify foreign clearinghouses as equivalent is December 15, 2016. If the EU does not recognize OCC as a qualified clearinghouse by such date (or by a subsequent date in the event that the current deadline is extended), then European market participants that clear through OCC would become subject to punitive capital charges. As a result, we could experience the loss of a significant number of European market participants and a significant reduction in trading activity on our markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. It is also possible that there will be additional legislative and regulatory changes or efforts in the environment in which we operate our businesses, although we cannot predict the nature of these potential changes or their impact on our business at this time. Actions on any of the specific regulatory issues currently under review in the U.S. and other proposals could have a material impact on our business. For a discussion of the regulatory environment in which we operate and proposed regulatory changes, see "Business—Regulatory Environment and Compliance" in Item 1A. of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. In addition, Congress, the SEC, foreign regulators and other regulatory authorities could impose legislative or regulatory changes that could adversely impact the ability of our market participants to use our markets. Any such changes could result in the loss of a significant number of market participants or a reduction in trading activity on our markets, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes or proposed changes in regulation may also result in additional costs of compliance and modification of market participants' trading activity on our exchanges.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds