Item 1A. Risk Factors. Other than the risk factor listed below, there have been no material updates during the period covered by this Form 10-Q to the Risk Factors as set forth in Item 1A. of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. These risks and uncertainties, however, are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also significantly impact us. Any of these risks and uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.Risks Relating to Our BusinessLegislative or regulatory changes affecting our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.Changes in regulation by the SEC, CFTC, FCA, foreign regulators or other government action, including SEC approval of rule filings by other self-regulatory organizations (SROs) or entities, including OCC, could materially affect our markets. In recent years, the securities and futures industries have been subject to regulatory changes as a result of increasing government and public scrutiny of the securities and futures industries. We have also experienced an increase in rulemaking and legislation that could affect our business. In 2010, Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act and other legislation. While many of its requirements have been implemented or are in the process of being implemented, some of the provisions in Dodd-Frank that impact our markets require additional action by the SEC or the CFTC. Depending on how the SEC and CFTC interpret, implement or alter these laws, exchanges like ours could be subject to additional costs. We could also see reduced trading by our customers due to margin or other requirements placed on them. Under the Collins Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, starting in 2015, large U.S. banks were required to use a new approach to compute their risk weighted assets, which include exchange-traded options and futures. This, and other rulemaking, has led to further increases in capital requirements for U.S. bank holding companies, and bank subsidiaries involved in the trading and clearing of derivatives. These increased capital requirements may reduce trading in options and futures due to bank-affiliated clearing members and broker-dealers reducing their own trading, charging their customers more to trade, reducing the type or number of customers or withdrawing from the business of market-maker clearing. In 2016, the SEC approved a plan to create, implement and maintain a consolidated audit trail, which would serve as a comprehensive audit trail of orders that will allow regulators to efficiently and accurately track all activity in Regulation NMS securities in the U.S. market. In addition to increased regulatory obligations, implementation of a consolidated audit trail could result in significant additional expenditures, including to implement any new technology to meet any plan’s requirements.In addition, the SEC approved a two‑year “tick pilot” program to impose wider minimum quoting and/or trading increments, or tick sizes, in certain securities in an effort to incentivize liquidity provision in those securities. The tick pilot began on October 3, 2016 and consists of a control group of approximately 1,400 securities. The exchanges, including BZX, BYX, EDGX and EDGA, and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) are required to submit their initial assessments on the tick pilot’s impact 18 months after the pilot begins based on data generated during the first 12 months of its operation. The tick pilot requires BZX, BYX, EDGX and EDGA to devote significant additional resources to implement and report on the program, increasing our costs. In addition, for tick pilot test group securities where execution at price increments narrower than the permitted quote is permitted, the implementation of the tick pilot could incentivize additional trading away from the exchanges, reducing the volume of orders executed on BZX, BYX, EDGX and EDGA.Further, Congress, regulators and some media have been increasingly scrutinizing electronic trading, the structure of equity markets and high frequency trading in recent years. The SEC continues to consider various potential market structure changes, which could result in reduced trading volumes, or which could negatively affect our business. To the extent the SEC adopts regulatory changes, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. In addition, the continued growth of high frequency trading has been the subject of private litigation and regulatory enforcement actions 55Table of Contentsalleging that high frequency trading firms have received unfair advantages at the expense of other traders. High frequency trading accounts for a meaningful percentage of the daily volume in the U.S. and European equity markets, and these actions and other efforts to slow trading could lead to a reduction in trading volumes, negatively impacting all trading markets, including our business. Under E.U. regulations, European banks and other European financial institutions become subject to punitive capital charges if they transact options or futures through a non-qualifying clearinghouse. OCC, our clearinghouse for options and futures, is not currently recognized as a qualified clearinghouse by the E.U. The current deadline for the E.U. to qualify foreign clearinghouses as equivalent is December 15, 2017. As a prerequisite to becoming qualified, OCC could be required by the E.U. to contribute significant capital to its default waterfall applicable in the event of clearing member default. This capital could be required to be drawn before the default fund contributions of non-defaulting clearing members in the event that a defaulting clearing member’s margin and other contributions were to be exhausted. OCC’s stockholders, including CBOE, could be required to fund this capital. If the E.U. does not recognize OCC as a qualified clearinghouse by the above date (or by a subsequent date in the event that the current deadline is extended), then European market participants that clear through OCC would become subject to punitive capital charges. As a result, we could experience the loss of a significant number of European market participants and a significant reduction in trading activity on our options and futures markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (Directive 2004/39/EC) (“MiFID”), came into effect in 2007, regulating the market for execution services within European listed cash equity securities. MiFID will be superseded and enhanced by the Directive on Markets in Financial Instruments (Directive 2014/65/EU) repealing Directive 2004/39/EC and the Regulation on Markets in Financial Instruments (Regulation (EU) No 600/2014), commonly referred to as “MiFID II and MiFIR,” respectively, which are expected to be implemented at the beginning of 2018. The implementation of MiFID II and MiFIR in Europe will result in an alteration of the existing MiFID structure that has encouraged competition among market centers in Europe. MiFID II and MiFIR introduce a number of new rules, including enhanced internal organizational and compliance monitoring requirements, which apply directly to European trading venues such as our MTF and RM. The impact of MiFID II and MiFIR is likely to be significant, and could reduce trading volumes and trading fees, while increasing our costs of operating in Europe. MiFIR may also have an adverse impact on our U.S. listed cash equity operations, because E.U. investment firms may be required to undertake trades in such U.S. listed cash equities only on E.U. RMs, MTFs and systematic internalisers or with third country trading venues which have been specifically assessed to be equivalent, unless and until an equivalence assessment is made in respect of our U.S. exchanges. Despite the U.K.’s vote to leave the E.U., it is expected that MiFID II and MiFIR will be implemented in the U.K. ahead of any exit. The legislative and regulatory environment in which the spot FX market operates is evolving and has undergone significant changes in the recent past, and there may be future regulatory changes in the spot FX industry. Spot FX market participants have seen an increasing number of law enforcement actions and regulatory inquiries into their business practices. The governmental bodies and regulatory organizations that regulate parts of the spot FX market have enacted, proposed and may consider additional legislative and regulatory initiatives and may adopt new or revised laws and regulations. Changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations by these entities, or the adoption of new legal or regulatory requirements, may also adversely affect our spot FX business. Further, our FX swaps business may also be adversely affected by proposed regulatory changes to the rules governing swap execution facilities. In addition, a global central bank and industry group initiative, instigated by the Bank of International Settlements, has sought to develop a single set of global principles of good practice for the wholesale FX market. This global code of conduct (the “Global Code”) was developed to provide a common set of guidelines to promote the integrity and effective functioning of the FX market. Although the Global Code does not impose legislative or regulatory obligations on market participants, following its publication in May 2017 our spot FX business may be subject to commercial pressures to accommodate its clients’ demands in terms of Global Code adherence, as well as demands to demonstrate our own compliance with the principles set forth therein. It is also possible that there will be additional legislative and regulatory changes or efforts in the environment in which we operate our businesses, although we cannot predict the nature of these changes or their impact on our business at this time. Actions on any of the specific regulatory issues currently under review in the U.S. or Europe and other proposals could have a material impact on our business. In addition, U.S. and foreign legislatures and regulators and other regulatory authorities could impose legislative or regulatory changes that could adversely impact the ability of our market participants to use our markets, or participate in the securities industry at all. Any such changes could result in the loss of a significant number of market participants or a reduction in trading activity on our markets, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and 56Table of Contentsoperating results. Changes or proposed changes in regulation may also result in additional costs of compliance and modification of market participants’ trading activity on our exchanges and markets. Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.