Item 1A. Risk Factors.   Other than the risk factor listed below, there have been no material updates during the period covered by this Form 10-Q to the Risk Factors as set forth in Item 1A. of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. These risks and uncertainties, however, are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also significantly impact us. Any of these risks and uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.   We may be required to inject further capital into OCC or EuroCCP or return dividends received back to OCC.    OCC is the sole provider of clearing on all of our options and futures exchanges. In addition, Cboe Europe Limited owns 20% of EuroCCP, which is one of three interoperable central counterparties used to clear trades conducted on Cboe Europe Limited. Prior to February 13, 2019, OCC maintained a capital plan under which (among other things) each of OCC's existing exchange stockholders, which include Cboe Options, provided equity capital to OCC, received annual dividends in respect thereof, and agreed to provide replenishment capital if certain capital thresholds were breached. However, as discussed in additional detail in Note 5 (“Investments”), on February 13, 2019 the OCC capital plan was disapproved by the SEC and, while OCC has taken certain steps toward unwinding the disapproved capital plan and achieving compliance with required target capital levels in the absence of the capital plan, there remains uncertainty regarding potential consequences. Depending on the terms on which the OCC capital plan is ultimately required to be unwound as a result of this disapproval, we may be required to return dividend payments received from OCC, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Although as a result of the SEC’s disapproval of the OCC capital plan, Cboe Options no longer has a contractual obligation to contribute further capital to OCC, given OCC’s importance to Cboe Options’ business, if OCC were to experience financial difficulties, Cboe Options might nevertheless be required to inject further capital into it in order for OCC to maintain its working or regulatory capital. Likewise, if EuroCCP were to experience financial difficulties, Cboe Europe Limited might be     57     Table of Contents  required to inject further capital into it in order to maintain its working or regulatory capital. In a worst case scenario, OCC or EuroCCP, as applicable, might have their regulatory license suspended or withdrawn, or might have to wind down. This may result in a loss to Cboe Options and Cboe Europe Limited of their respective investments in OCC and EuroCCP and withdrawals of OCC or EuroCCP as clearing houses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.   Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.