Item 1A. Risk Factors   This document contains "forward-looking statements" that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and plans that are subject to uncertainty. These statements are made subject to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.   These forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and may be identified by their use of words like "plans," "seeks," "expects," "will," "should," "anticipates," "estimates," "intends," "believes," "likely," "targets" and other words with similar meanings. These statements may address, among other things, our strategy for growth, catastrophe exposure management, product development, investment results, regulatory approvals, market position, expenses, financial results, litigation and reserves. We believe that these statements are based on reasonable estimates, assumptions and plans. However, if the estimates, assumptions or plans underlying the forward-looking statements prove inaccurate or if other risks or uncertainties arise, actual results could differ materially from those communicated in these forward-looking statements.   In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below, which apply to us as an insurer and a provider of other financial services. These risks constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and readers should carefully review such cautionary statements as they identify certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and historical trends. These cautionary statements are not exclusive and are in addition to other factors discussed elsewhere in this document, in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or in materials incorporated therein by reference.   Risks Relating to the Property-Liability business   As a property and casualty insurer, we may face significant losses from catastrophes and severe weather events   Because of the exposure of our property and casualty business to catastrophic events, our operating results and financial condition may vary significantly from one period to the next. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural and man-made disasters, including earthquakes, volcanoes, wildfires, tornadoes, hurricanes, tropical storms and certain types of terrorism. In 2008 catastrophe losses were $3.34 billion and included estimates of losses for Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, among other events. We may continue to incur catastrophe losses in our auto and property business in excess of those experienced in prior years, those that management projects would be incurred based on hurricane and earthquake losses which have a one percent probability of occurring on an annual aggregate countrywide basis, those that external modeling firms estimate would be incurred based on other levels of probability, the average expected level used in pricing, and our current reinsurance coverage limits. Despite our catastrophe management programs, we are exposed to catastrophes that could have a material adverse effect on operating results and financial condition. For example, our historical catastrophe experience includes losses relating to Hurricane Katrina in 2005 totaling $3.6 billion, the Northridge earthquake of 1994 totaling $2.1 billion and Hurricane Andrew in 1992 totaling $2.3 billion. We are also exposed to assessments from the California Earthquake Authority, and various state-created catastrophe insurance facilities, and to losses that could surpass the capitalization of these facilities. Our liquidity could be constrained by a catastrophe, or multiple catastrophes, which result in extraordinary losses or a downgrade of our debt or financial strength ratings.   In addition, we are subject to claims arising from weather events such as winter storms, rain, hail and high winds. The incidence and severity of weather conditions are largely unpredictable. There is generally an increase in the frequency and severity of auto and property claims when severe weather conditions occur.   The nature and level of catastrophes in any period cannot be predicted and could be material to catastrophe losses   Along with others in the industry, we use models developed by third party vendors in assessing our property exposure to catastrophe losses that assume various conditions and probability scenarios. Such models do not necessarily accurately predict future losses or accurately measure losses currently incurred. Catastrophe models, which have been evolving since the early 1990s, use historical information about hurricanes and earthquakes and also utilize detailed information about our in-force business. While we use this information in connection with our  14       pricing and risk management activities, there are limitations with respect to its usefulness in predicting losses in any reporting period. These limitations are evident in significant variations in estimates between models and modelers, material increases and decreases in model results due to changes and refinements of the underlying data elements, assumptions which lead to questionable predictive capability, and actual event conditions that have not been well understood previously and not incorporated into the models. In addition, the models are not necessarily reflective of actual demand surge, loss adjustment expenses and the occurrence of mold losses, which are subject to wide variation by event or location.   Impacts of catastrophes and our catastrophe management strategy may adversely affect premium growth   Due to our catastrophe risk management efforts, our short-term growth has been negatively impacted and may continue to be negatively impacted if we take further actions. Homeowners premium growth rates and retention could be more adversely impacted than we expect by adjustments to our business structure, size and underwriting practices in markets with significant catastrophe risk exposure. In addition, due to the diminished potential for cross-selling opportunities, new business growth in our auto lines could be lower than expected.   Unanticipated increases in the severity or frequency of claims may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition   Changes in the severity or frequency of claims may affect the profitability of our Allstate Protection segment. Changes in bodily injury claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in the medical sector of the economy and litigation. Changes in auto physical damage claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in auto repair costs, auto parts prices and used car prices. Changes in homeowner's claim severity are driven by inflation in the construction industry, in building materials and in home furnishings and by other economic and environmental factors, including increased demand for services and supplies in areas affected by catastrophes. However, changes in the level of the severity of claims are not limited to the effects of inflation and demand surge in these various sectors of the economy. Increases in claim severity can arise from unexpected events that are inherently difficult to predict. Examples of such events include a decision in 2001 by the Georgia Supreme Court that diminished value coverage was included in auto policies under Georgia law and the emergence of mold-related homeowners losses in the state of Texas during 2002. Although we pursue various loss management initiatives in the Allstate Protection segment in order to mitigate future increases in claim severity, there can be no assurances that these initiatives will successfully identify or reduce the effect of future increases in claim severity.   Our Allstate Protection segment may experience declines in claim frequency from time to time. The short-term level of claim frequency we experience may vary from period to period and may not be sustainable over the longer term. A spike in gas prices and a significant decline in miles driven, both of which occurred in 2008, are examples of factors leading to a short-term frequency change. A significant long-term increase in claim frequency could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.   Actual claims incurred may exceed current reserves established for claims and may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition   Recorded claim reserves in the Property-Liability business are based on our best estimates of losses, both reported and incurred but not reported ("IBNR"), after considering known facts and interpretations of circumstances. Internal factors are considered including our experience with similar cases, actual claims paid, historical trends involving claim payment patterns, pending levels of unpaid claims, loss management programs, product mix, and contractual terms. External factors are also considered which include but are not limited to law changes, court decisions, changes to regulatory requirements and economic conditions. Because reserves are estimates of the unpaid portion of losses that have occurred, including IBNR losses, the establishment of appropriate reserves, including reserves for catastrophes, is an inherently uncertain and complex process. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded reserves and such variance may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.   Predicting claim expense relating to asbestos, environmental, and other discontinued lines is inherently uncertain and may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition   The process of estimating asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines liabilities is complicated by complex legal issues concerning, among other things, the interpretation of various insurance policy provisions and whether those losses are, or were ever intended to be covered; and whether losses could be recoverable through retrospectively determined premium, reinsurance or other contractual agreements. Asbestos-related bankruptcies and other asbestos litigation are complex, lengthy proceedings that involve substantial uncertainty for insurers. Actuarial techniques and databases used in estimating asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines net loss reserves may prove to be inadequate indicators of the extent of probable loss. Ultimate net losses from these discontinued lines could materially exceed established loss reserves and expected recoveries and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.  15       Regulation limiting rate increases and requiring us to underwrite business and participate in loss sharing arrangements may decrease our profitability   From time to time, political events and positions affect the insurance market, including efforts to suppress rates to a level that may not allow us to reach targeted levels of profitability. For example, if Allstate Protection's loss ratio compares favorably to that of the industry, state regulatory authorities may impose rate rollbacks, require us to pay premium refunds to policyholders, or resist or delay our efforts to raise rates even if the property and casualty industry generally is not experiencing regulatory resistance to rate increases. Such resistance affects our ability, in all product lines, to obtain approval for rate changes that may be required to achieve targeted levels of profitability and returns on equity. Our ability to afford reinsurance required to reduce our catastrophe risk in designated areas may be dependent upon the ability to adjust rates for its cost.   In addition to regulating rates, certain states have enacted laws that require a property-liability insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations or require the insurer to offer coverage to all consumers, often restricting an insurer's ability to charge the price it might otherwise charge. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of business at lower than desired rates, possibly leading to an unacceptable return on equity, or as the facilities recognize a financial deficit, they may in turn have the ability to assess participating insurers, adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. Laws and regulations of many states also limit an insurer's ability to withdraw from one or more lines of insurance in the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. Additionally, certain states require insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the state. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by any of these factors.   The potential benefits of implementing our sophisticated risk segmentation process may not be fully realized   We believe that pricing sophistication and underwriting (including Strategic Risk Management which, in some situations, considers information that is obtained from credit reports among other factors) has allowed us to be more competitive and operate more profitably. However, because many of our competitors have adopted underwriting criteria and sophisticated pricing models similar to those we use and because other competitors may follow suit, our competitive advantage could decline or be lost. Further, the use of insurance scoring from information that is obtained from credit reports as a factor in underwriting and pricing has at times been challenged by regulators, legislators, litigants and special interest groups in various states. Competitive pressures could also force us to modify our pricing sophistication model. Furthermore, we cannot be assured that these pricing sophistication models will accurately reflect the level of losses that we will ultimately incur from the mix of new business generated.   Allstate Protection's financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the property and casualty business   The property and casualty market is cyclical and has experienced periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively lower levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. A downturn in the profitability cycle of the property and casualty business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   Risks Relating to the Allstate Financial Segment   Changes in underwriting and actual experience could materially affect profitability and financial condition   Our product pricing includes long-term assumptions regarding investment returns, mortality, morbidity, persistency and operating costs and expenses of the business. Management establishes target returns for each product based upon these factors and the average amount of capital that the Company must hold to support in-force contracts taking into account rating agencies and regulatory requirements. We monitor and manage our pricing and overall sales mix to achieve target new business returns on a portfolio basis, which could result in the discontinuation of products or distribution relationships and a decline in sales. Profitability from new business emerges over a period of years depending on the nature and life of the product and is subject to variability as actual results may differ from pricing assumptions.   Our profitability in this segment depends on the adequacy of investment spreads, the management of market and credit risks associated with investments, the sufficiency of premiums and contract charges to cover mortality and morbidity benefits, the persistency of policies to ensure recovery of acquisition expenses, and the management of operating costs and expenses within anticipated pricing allowances. Legislation and regulation of the insurance marketplace and products could also affect our profitability and financial condition.  16       Changes in reserve estimates may adversely affect our operating results   Reserve for life-contingent contract benefits is computed on the basis of long-term actuarial assumptions of future investment yields, mortality, morbidity, policy terminations and expenses. We periodically review the adequacy of these reserves on an aggregate basis and if future experience differs significantly from assumptions, adjustments to reserves and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ("DAC") may be required which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.   Changes in market interest rates may lead to a significant decrease in the sales and profitability of spread-based products   Our ability to manage the Allstate Financial spread-based products, such as fixed annuities and institutional products, is dependent upon maintaining profitable spreads between investment yields and interest crediting rates. When market interest rates decrease or remain at relatively low levels, proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold may be reinvested at lower yields, reducing investment spread. Lowering interest crediting rates in such an environment can partially offset decreases in investment yield on some products. However, these changes could be limited by market conditions, regulatory minimum rates or contractual minimum rate guarantees on many contracts and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. Decreases in the rates offered on products in the Allstate Financial segment could make those products less attractive, leading to lower sales and/or changes in the level of policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals. Non-parallel shifts in interest rates, such as increases in short-term rates without accompanying increases in medium- and long-term rates, can influence customer demand for fixed annuities, which could impact the level and profitability of new customer deposits. Increases in market interest rates can also have negative effects on Allstate Financial, for example by increasing the attractiveness of other investments to our customers, which can lead to higher surrenders at a time when the segment's fixed income investment asset values are lower as a result of the increase in interest rates. This could lead to the sale of fixed income securities at a loss. For certain products, principally fixed annuity and interest-sensitive life products, the earned rate on assets could lag behind rising market yields. We may react to market conditions by increasing crediting rates, which could narrow spreads and reduce profitability. Unanticipated surrenders could result in accelerated amortization of DAC or affect the recoverability of DAC and thereby increase expenses and reduce profitability.   Changes in estimates of profitability on interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities and other investment products may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition through increased amortization of DAC   DAC related to interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities and other investment contracts is amortized in proportion to actual historical gross profits and estimated future gross profits ("EGP") over the estimated lives of the contracts. The principal assumptions for determining the amount of EGP are investment returns, including capital gains and losses on assets supporting contract liabilities, interest crediting rates to contractholders, and the effects of persistency, mortality, expenses, and hedges if applicable. Updates to these assumptions (commonly referred to as "DAC unlocking") could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. In 2008, DAC unlocking resulted in increased amortization of DAC of $327 million.   Narrowing the focus of our product offerings and reducing our concentration in fixed annuities and funding agreements may adversely affect reported results   Due to the current capital market conditions, we have been pursuing strategies to narrow our product offerings and reduce our concentration in fixed annuities and funding agreements. Lower new sales of these products, as well as our ongoing risk mitigation and return optimization programs, could negatively impact investment portfolio levels, complicate settlement of expiring contracts including forced sales of assets with unrealized capital losses, impact DAC amortization, and affect goodwill impairment testing and insurance reserves deficiency testing.   A loss of key product distribution relationships could materially affect sales   Certain products in the Allstate Financial segment are distributed under agreements with other members of the financial services industry that are not affiliated with us. Termination of one or more of these agreements due to, for example, a change in control of one of these distributors, could have a detrimental effect on the sales of Allstate Financial.   Changes in tax laws may decrease sales and profitability of products and financial condition   Under current federal and state income tax law, certain products we offer, primarily life insurance and annuities, receive favorable tax treatment. This favorable treatment may give certain of our products a competitive advantage over noninsurance products. Congress from time to time considers legislation that would reduce or eliminate the favorable policyholder tax treatment currently applicable to life insurance and annuities. Congress also considers proposals to reduce the taxation of certain products or investments that may compete with life insurance and annuities. Legislation that increases the taxation on insurance products or reduces the taxation on  17       competing products could lessen the advantage or create a disadvantage for certain of our products making them less competitive. Such proposals, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition or ability to sell such products and could result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies. In addition, changes in the federal estate tax laws could negatively affect the demand for the types of life insurance used in estate planning.   Risks Relating to Investments   We are subject to market risk and declines in credit quality which may adversely impact investment income and cause additional realized losses   Although we continually reevaluate our proactive risk mitigation and return optimization programs, we remain subject to the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse changes in equity prices, interest rates, commodity prices or foreign currency exchange rates. Our primary market risk exposures are to changes in interest rates and equity prices and, to a lesser degree, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. In addition, we are subject to potential declines in credit quality, either related to issues specific to certain industries or to a general weakening in the economy. Although to some extent we use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks, the effectiveness of such instruments is subject to the same risks.   A decline in market interest rates could have an adverse effect on our investment income as we invest cash in new investments that may yield less than the portfolio's average rate. In a declining interest rate environment, borrowers may prepay or redeem securities more quickly than expected as they seek to refinance at lower rates. A decline could also lead us to purchase longer-term or riskier assets in order to obtain adequate investment yields resulting in a duration gap when compared to the duration of liabilities. An increase in market interest rates could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio by decreasing the fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial majority of our investment portfolio. A declining equity market could also cause the investments in our pension plans to decrease or decreasing interest rates could cause the funding target and the projected benefit obligation of our pension plans or the accumulated benefit obligation of our other post retirement benefit plans to increase, either or both resulting in a decrease in the funded status of the plans and a reduction of shareholders' equity, increases in pension expense and increases in required contributions to the pension plans. A decline in the quality of our investment portfolio as a result of adverse economic conditions or otherwise could cause additional realized losses on securities, including realized losses relating to equity and derivative strategies.   Deteriorating financial performance on securities collateralized by mortgage loans and commercial mortgage loans may lead to write-downs   Changes in mortgage delinquency or recovery rates, declining real estate prices, changes in credit or bond insurer strength ratings and the quality of service provided by service providers on securities in our portfolios could lead us to determine that write-downs are appropriate in the future.   The impact of our investment strategies may be adversely affected by developments in the investment markets   The impact of our investment portfolio risk mitigation and return optimization programs and enterprise asset allocation actions may be adversely affected by unexpected developments in the investment markets. For example, derivative contracts, when entered into, may result in coverage that is not as effective as intended.   Concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular segment of the economy may have adverse effects on our operating results and financial condition   The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular industry, collateral types, group of related industries or geographic sector could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolios and consequently on our results of operations and financial condition. Events or developments that have a negative impact on any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic region may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated rather than diversified.   The determination of the amount of realized capital losses recorded for impairments of our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our operating results and financial condition   The determination of the amount of realized capital losses recorded for impairments vary by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in realized capital gains and losses from impairments in operating results as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of or amounts recorded for impairments taken in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be recorded in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. For example, the cost of our fixed income and equity securities is adjusted for  18       impairments in value deemed to be other than temporary in the period in which the determination is made. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on management's case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value.   The determination of the fair value of our fixed income and equity securities results in unrealized net capital gains and losses and is highly subjective and could materially impact our operating results and financial condition   In determining fair value we generally utilize market transaction data for the same or similar instruments. The degree of management judgment involved in determining fair values is inversely related to the availability of market observable information. The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities may differ from the amount actually received to sell an asset or the amount paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Moreover, the use of different valuation assumptions may have a material effect on the financial assets' and financial liabilities' fair values. The difference between amortized cost or cost and fair value, net of deferred income taxes, certain life and annuity DAC, certain deferred sales inducement costs ("DSI"), and certain reserves for life-contingent contract benefits, is reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders' equity. As of December 31, 2008, total unrealized net capital losses was $8.81 billion. In the last 10 years, our quarterly net unrealized capital gains and losses have ranged from a $7.55 billion net unrealized capital gain at June 30, 2003 to an $8.81 billion net unrealized capital loss at December 31, 2008. Changing market conditions could materially effect the determination of the fair value of our securities and unrealized net capital gains and losses could vary significantly. Determining fair value is highly subjective and could materially impact our operating results and financial condition.   Risks Relating to the Insurance Industry   Our future results are dependent in part on our ability to successfully operate in an insurance industry that is highly competitive   The insurance industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include other insurers and, because many of our products include a savings or investment component, securities firms, investment advisers, mutual funds, banks and other financial institutions. Many of our competitors have well-established national reputations and market similar products. Because of the competitive nature of the insurance industry, including competition for producers such as exclusive and independent agents, there can be no assurance that we will continue to effectively compete with our industry rivals, or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Furthermore, certain competitors operate using a mutual insurance company structure and therefore, may have dissimilar profitability and return targets. Our ability to successfully operate may also be impaired if we are not effective in filling critical leadership positions, in developing the talent and skills of our human resources, in assimilating new executive talent into our organization, or in deploying human resource talent consistently with our business goals.   Difficult conditions in the economy generally could adversely affect our business and operating results   Economists now believe the United States economy has entered into a recessionary period and are projecting significant negative macroeconomic trends, including widespread job losses, higher unemployment, lower consumer spending, continued declines in home prices and substantial increases in delinquencies on consumer debt, including defaults on home mortgages. Moreover, recent disruptions in the financial markets, particularly the reduced availability of credit and tightened lending requirements, have impacted the ability of borrowers to refinance loans at more affordable rates. We cannot predict the length and severity of a recession, but as with most businesses, we believe a longer or more severe recession could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.   A general economic slowdown could adversely affect us in the form of consumer behavior and pressure on our investment portfolios. Consumer behavior could include decreased demand for our products. For example, as consumers purchase fewer automobiles, our sales of auto insurance may decline. Also, as consumers become more cost conscious, they may choose lower levels of auto and homeowners insurance. In 2008, declining new car sales, weakness in the housing market and a highly competitive environment contributed to lower policies in force. In addition, holders of some of our life insurance and annuity products may engage in an elevated level of discretionary withdrawals of contractholder funds. Our investment portfolios could be adversely affected as a result of deteriorating financial and business conditions affecting the issuers of the securities in our investment portfolio.  19       There can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. federal government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets and stimulating the economy will achieve the intended effect   In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system, the financial markets and the broader economy, the U.S. federal government, the Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking action to address such conditions including, among other things, purchasing mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions, investing directly in banks, thrifts and bank and savings and loan holding companies and increasing federal spending to stimulate the economy. There can be no assurance as to what impact such actions will have on the financial markets or on economic conditions. Such continued volatility and economic deterioration could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.   Losses from litigation may be material to our operating results or cash flows and financial condition   As is typical for a large company, we are involved in a substantial amount of litigation, including class action litigation challenging a range of company practices and coverage provided by our insurance products. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters, the ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts currently reserved and may be material to our operating results or cash flows for a particular quarter or annual period and to our financial condition.   We are subject to extensive regulation and potential further restrictive regulation may increase our operating costs and limit our growth   As insurance companies, broker-dealers, investment advisers and/or investment companies, many of our subsidiaries are subject to extensive laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. Moreover, they are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities, including state insurance regulators, state securities administrators, the SEC, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the U.S. Department of Justice, and state attorneys general, each of which exercises a degree of interpretive latitude. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal issue may not result in compliance with another's interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. In addition, there is risk that any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal issue may change over time to our detriment, or that changes in the overall legal environment may, even absent any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a legal risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow and improve the profitability of our business. Furthermore, in some cases, these laws and regulations are designed to protect or benefit the interests of a specific constituency rather than a range of constituencies. For example, state insurance laws and regulations are generally intended to protect or benefit purchasers or users of insurance products, not holders of securities issued by The Allstate Corporation. In many respects, these laws and regulations limit our ability to grow and improve the profitability of our business.   In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under public scrutiny and members of Congress have discussed proposals to provide for federal chartering of insurance companies. We can make no assurances regarding the potential impact of state or federal measures that may change the nature or scope of insurance regulation.   Reinsurance may be unavailable at current levels and prices, which may limit our ability to write new business   Our personal lines catastrophe reinsurance program was designed, utilizing our risk management methodology, to address our exposure to catastrophes nationwide. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase. No assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain continuously available to us to the same extent and on the same terms and rates as are currently available. For example, our ability to afford reinsurance to reduce our catastrophe risk in designated areas may be dependent upon our ability to adjust premium rates for its cost, and there are no assurances that the terms and rates for our current reinsurance program will continue to be available next year. If we were unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient and at prices that we consider acceptable, we would have to either accept an increase in our exposure risk, reduce our insurance writings, or develop or seek other alternatives.   Reinsurance subjects us to the credit risk of our reinsurers and may not be adequate to protect us against losses arising from ceded insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition   The collectability of reinsurance recoverables is subject to uncertainty arising from a number of factors, including changes in market conditions, whether insured losses meet the qualifying conditions of the reinsurance  20       contract and whether reinsurers, or their affiliates, have the financial capacity and willingness to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance treaty or contract. Our inability to collect a material recovery from a reinsurer could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.   The continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the level of claim losses we incur and the value of our investment portfolio   The continued threat of terrorism, both within the United States and abroad, and ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and losses from declines in the equity markets and from interest rate changes in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, and result in loss of life, property damage, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. We seek to mitigate the potential impact of terrorism on our commercial mortgage portfolio by limiting geographical concentrations in key metropolitan areas and by requiring terrorism insurance to the extent that it is commercially available. Additionally, in the event that terrorist acts occur, both Allstate Protection and Allstate Financial could be adversely affected, depending on the nature of the event.   A downgrade in our financial strength ratings may have an adverse effect on our competitive position, the marketability of our product offerings, and our liquidity, operating results and financial condition   Financial strength ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and generally have an effect on an insurance company's business. On an ongoing basis, rating agencies review the financial performance and condition of insurers and could downgrade or change the outlook on an insurer's ratings due to, for example, a change in an insurer's statutory capital; a change in a rating agency's determination of the amount of risk-adjusted capital required to maintain a particular rating; an increase in the perceived risk of an insurer's investment portfolio; a reduced confidence in management or a host of other considerations that may or may not be under the insurer's control. The current insurance financial strength ratings of Allstate Insurance Company are A+, AA- and Aa3 from A.M. Best, Standard & Poor's and Moody's, respectively. The current insurance financial strength ratings of Allstate Life Insurance Company are A+, AA- and A1 from A.M. Best, Standard & Poor's and Moody's, respectively. The Allstate Corporation currently maintains a senior debt rating of a-, A- and A3 from A.M. Best, Standard & Poor's and Moody's, respectively. Several other affiliates have been assigned their own financial strength ratings by one or more rating agencies. Because all of these ratings are subject to continuous review, the retention of these ratings cannot be assured. A downgrade in any of these ratings could have a material adverse effect on our sales, our competitiveness, the marketability of our product offerings, and our liquidity, operating results and financial condition.   Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs or our ability to obtain credit on acceptable terms   The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity. In the event that we need access to additional capital to pay our operating expenses, make payments on our indebtedness, pay for capital expenditures or fund acquisitions, our ability to obtain such capital may be limited and the cost of any such capital may be significant. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as lenders' perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms.   Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements   Our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, which are periodically revised, interpreted and/or expanded. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new guidance or interpretations, or could be subject to existing guidance as we enter into new transactions, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition that is either unexpected or has a greater impact than expected. For a description of changes in accounting standards that are currently pending and, if known, our estimates of their expected impact, see Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements.   The change in our unrecognized tax benefit during the next 12 months is subject to uncertainty   As required by FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes", which was adopted as of January 1, 2007, we have disclosed our estimate of net unrecognized tax benefits and the reasonably possible increase or decrease in its balance during the next 12 months. However, actual results may differ from our estimate for reasons such as changes in our position on specific issues, developments with respect to the  21       governments' interpretations of income tax laws or changes in judgment resulting from new information obtained in audits or the appeals process.   The realization of deferred tax assets is subject to uncertainty   The realization of our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, is based on our assumption that we will be able to fully utilize the deductions that are ultimately recognized for tax purposes. However, actual results may differ from our assumptions if adequate levels of taxable income are not attained.   The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends may affect our liquidity and ability to meet our obligations   The Allstate Corporation is a holding company with no significant operations. The principal asset is the stock of its subsidiaries. State insurance regulatory authorities limit the payment of dividends by insurance subsidiaries, as described in Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements. In addition, competitive pressures generally require the subsidiaries to maintain insurance financial strength ratings. These restrictions and other regulatory requirements affect the ability of the subsidiaries to make dividend payments. Limits on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay dividends could adversely affect our liquidity, including our ability to pay dividends to shareholders, service our debt and complete share repurchase programs in the timeframe expected.   The occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively   In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a terrorist attack or war, events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems could have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those events affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems. In the event that a significant number of our managers could be unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct our business could be severely compromised.   Changing climate conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, profitability or cash flows   Allstate recognizes the scientific view that the world is getting warmer. Climate change, to the extent it produces rising temperatures and changes in weather patterns, could impact the frequency or severity of weather events and wildfires, the affordability and availability of homeowners insurance and the results for our Allstate Protection segment. To the extent that climate change impacts mortality rates and those changes do not match the long-term mortality assumptions in our product pricing, the results for our Allstate Financial segment would be impacted.   Loss of key vendor relationships could affect our operations   We rely on services and products provided by many vendors in the United States and abroad. These include, for example, vendors of computer hardware and software and vendors of services such as claim adjustment services and human resource benefits management services. In the event that one or more of our vendors suffers a bankruptcy or otherwise becomes unable to continue to provide products or services, we may suffer operational impairments and financial losses.   Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments