Item 1A. Risk Factors  As of the date of this filing, the Company and its operations continue to be subject to the risk factors previously disclosed in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following risk factor has been updated from our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K:  There are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or economic instability, currency restrictions, and trade and economic sanctions.  Approximately 75% of our revenues in the second quarter of 2015 were derived from operations outside the United States (based on revenue destination). Our foreign operations include significant operations in Argentina, Canada, Brazil, Europe, the Middle East, China, Africa, Nigeria, Southeast Asia, Russia, Latin America, Libya and other international markets. Our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. Government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. As a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. In addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between us and government-owned petroleum companies or oilfield service companies.  Our operations outside the United States could also expose us to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the United States as well as non-U.S. Governmental Regulatory Authorities. The U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, other U.S. federal agencies and foreign governmental authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of trading sanctions laws, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), other federal statutes, and foreign anti-bribery, anti-corruption and trade laws. Under U.S. trading sanctions laws, the government authorities may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs. If any of the risks described above materialize, it could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.  Our ability to comply with the FCPA and foreign anti-bribery laws is dependent on the success of our ongoing compliance program, including our ability to continue to supervise, train and retain competent employees. Our compliance program also depends on the efforts of our employees to comply with applicable law. We could be subject to sanctions and civil and criminal prosecution as well as fines and penalties in the event of a finding of a violation of the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws by us or any of our employees. Compliance with, and changes in, laws could be costly and could affect operating results. In addition, government disruptions could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business.  We have operations in the U.S. and in approximately 70 countries that can be impacted by changes in the legal and business environments in which we operate, including new legislation, new regulations, new policies, investigations and legal proceedings and new interpretations of existing legal rules and regulations, export control laws or exchange control laws, additional restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions, and changes in laws in countries where we operate or intend to operate all could adversely impact our business.  Further, in some instances, direct or indirect consumers of our products and services, entities providing financing for purchases of our products and services or members of the supply chain for our products and services may become involved in governmental investigations, internal investigations, political or other enforcement matters. In such circumstances, such investigations may adversely impact the ability of consumers of our products, entities providing financial support to such consumers or entities in the supply chain to timely perform their business plans or to timely perform under agreements with us. For example, the on-going, publicly disclosed investigations in Brazil may adversely impact our shipyard customers, their customers, entities providing financing for our shipyard customers and / or entities in the supply chain. The investigation in Brazil has led to, and is expected to continue to lead to, delays in deliveries to our shipyard customers in Brazil, along with temporary suspension of performance under our supply contracts, and could result in attempted cancellation or other breaches of our contracts by our shipyard customers. Further, customers in other markets may seek delay or suspension of deliveries, extending delivery into future periods, or may attempt cancellations. While we manage deliveries and collection of payment to achieve percentage of completion payments that mitigate our financial risk, such delays, suspensions, attempted cancellations, breaches of contract or other similar circumstances, could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition and could reduce our backlog.    38    Sanctions imposed by the United States, European Union and other countries could adversely impact our business activities in or related to Russia and certain Russian companies, including prohibitions of certain sales of goods and services, delay in executing construction or manufacturing projects, credit risk and adverse impacts due to currency fluctuations. To date, we have not identified any material adverse financial impact to our business from these sanctions. Future trade regulations or sanctions, however, could result in adverse impacts on our operating results and financial condition.  We have received U.S. federal grand jury subpoenas and subsequent inquiries from U.S. governmental agencies requesting records related to our compliance with U.S. export trade laws and regulations. We have cooperated fully with agents from the Department of Justice, the Bureau of Industry and Security, the Office of Foreign Assets Control, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in responding to the inquiries. We have also cooperated with an informal inquiry from the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the inquiries previously made by the aforementioned federal agencies. We have conducted our own internal review of this matter. At the conclusion of our internal review in the fourth quarter of 2009, we identified possible areas of concern and discussed these areas of concern with the relevant agencies. We are currently negotiating a potential resolution with the agencies involved related to these matters. We currently anticipate that any administrative fine or penalty agreed to as part of a resolution would be within established accruals, and would not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. To the extent a resolution is not negotiated as anticipated, we cannot predict the timing or effect that any resulting government actions may have on our financial position or results of operations.      Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures