Item 1A—Risk Factors  From an investor’s standpoint, public companies in general and financial institutions in particular share many of the same risks. However, each company’s unique combination of strategies, markets served, product and service offerings, processes and systems, and other internal and external factors cause it to have its own set of principal risks. Following is a description of some of the principal risks inherent in Northern Trust’s business. We manage these risks through our business strategies and plans and our risk management practices and controls.  Economic Risks  Northern Trust carries on a global business. Changes in the world economy, or in the economies of the U.S. or other countries or regions, can affect our results. For example, a downturn in the U.S. economy can affect the ability of borrowers to repay loans, causing credit quality to deteriorate. Falling equity markets generally affect Northern Trust earnings negatively, since a    23    Table of Contents significant part of the fees we earn is based on asset values. The direction and level of interest rates also are important factors since falling rates or rates that remain very low can reduce or reduce growth in net interest income levels. Economic conditions also affect wealth creation, investment and savings patterns, all of which may impact Northern Trust’s business. Conditions in particular markets, including matters such as currency volatility and the demand for borrowed securities, can affect Northern Trust’s earnings from activities such as foreign exchange trading and securities lending. In addition, transaction volumes can impact Northern Trust’s earnings and may vary with economic conditions.  Operating Risks  In our asset servicing, investment management and other business activities, Northern Trust effects or processes transactions for clients that involve very large amounts of money. Human errors or omissions, systems defects, systems interruptions and breakdowns in processes or internal controls can result in significant exposure. External events, including natural disasters, epidemics, or terrorist events, can similarly impact operations, creating exposure.  Investment Performance and Fiduciary Risks  Revenues from our investment management and asset servicing businesses are significant to our earnings. Generating returns that satisfy clients in a variety of asset classes is important to maintaining existing business and attracting new business. Administering or managing assets in accordance with the terms of governing documents and applicable laws is also important to client satisfaction, and failure to do so can generate liability.  Regulation Risks  Virtually every aspect of Northern Trust’s business around the world is regulated, generally by governmental agencies that have broad supervisory powers and the ability to impose sanctions. Regulatory violations could generate penalties, result in limitations on our ability to conduct business or restrict our ability to expand. Changes in regulation also can impose costs or otherwise affect our ability to compete successfully. Evolving regulations, such as the new Basel II capital regime and anti-money laundering regulations, can require significant effort on our part to ensure compliance. New or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial institutions industry, including Northern Trust.  Litigation Risks  Our businesses involve the risk that clients or others may sue us, claiming that we have failed to perform under a contract or otherwise breached a duty owed to them. Our trust and investment management businesses are particularly subject to this risk. Cases of this kind can involve substantial claims and be expensive to defend. We estimate our potential liability for pending and threatened claims by evaluating the facts of particular claims under current judicial decisions and legislative and regulatory interpretations. This process is subject to the risk that a judge or jury could decide a case contrary to our evaluation of the law or the facts, and to the risk that a court could change or modify existing law on a particular issue important to the case. Developments in a particular case may also impact services that we provide to others.  Strategic Risks  We have grown through a combination of internal expansion and the acquisition of selected businesses or capabilities, and we intend to continue to do so. Failure to integrate a substantial acquisition would have an adverse effect on our business, as would the failure to execute successfully any significant internal expansion. Growth also depends upon successful, consistent execution of our business strategies in both PFS and C&IS, and a failure to do so could negatively impact growth.  We do business in competitive markets that require consistent investment of capital and human resources in innovation. This investment is either to generate new products or more effective service delivery that will help us compete successfully for new clients or additional business from existing clients. Innovation, as a part of our business strategy, also produces efficiencies in operations that will help us reduce and control costs, including the costs of losses associated with operating risks attributable to servicing and managing financial assets. Falling behind our competition in any of these areas could adversely affect our business opportunities and growth.  Reputation Risks  An important reason that clients bring their business to Northern Trust is that they believe we will serve them with high standards of ethics, performance, accuracy, and compliance. Many of the risks described above would, if our plans and processes for    24    Table of Contents controlling or mitigating them are not successful, damage our reputation for delivering the expected service, and consequently undermine the confidence of clients and prospects in our ability to serve them. Damage to our reputation also could affect the confidence of counterparties, rating agencies, and stockholders in Northern Trust, and ultimately affect our ability to manage our balance sheet or effect transactions.  Many of the risks described above are discussed in more detail in the sections of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” captioned “Risk Management,” “Market Risk Management” and “Operational Risk Management” in the 2005 Financial Annual Report to Stockholders (pages 20 - 30), in the section of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in the 2005 Financial Annual Report to Stockholders captioned “Note 25, Contingent Liabilities” (pages 62 – 63), and in the sections of “Item 1 – Business” of the 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K captioned “Government Policies,” “Competition” and “Regulation and Supervision” (pages 6 - 13).   Item 1B—Unresolved Staff Comments