Item 1A—Risk Factors  From an investor’s standpoint, public companies in general and financial institutions in particular share many of the same risks. However, each company’s unique combination of strategies, markets served, product and service offerings, processes and systems, and other internal and external factors cause it to have its own set of principal risks. Following is a description of some of the principal risks inherent in Northern Trust’s business. We manage these risks through our business strategies and plans and our risk management practices and controls, and our ability to continue to successfully identify and manage significant risks is itself a risk factor.  Economic, Market, and Monetary Policy Risks   Northern Trust carries on a global business. Northern Trust’s businesses are affected by conditions in the global financial markets and general economic conditions both in the U.S. and internationally. Factors such as the level and volatility of equity and futures prices, the overall pace of capital markets activities, interest rates, currency exchange rates, investor sentiment and inflation can affect our results. For example, a downturn in economic conditions can affect the ability of borrowers to repay loans, causing credit quality to deteriorate and resulting in increased cost of credit, a higher level of charge-offs, and higher provision for credit losses. In addition, Northern Trust believes it has profited from the increasing globalization of investment activity and from pension reform in many nations that has generated new pools of assets that require management and servicing. Any slowing of this globalization or other such trends would adversely affect factors that     25    Table of Contents  have been important in Northern Trust’s recent growth. Northern Trust’s expanding business activities in emerging markets also presents the risks inherent in conducting these activities in less mature and often less regulated business and investment environments.  The fees we earn for managing and servicing our customers’ assets are also affected by general economic conditions. For example, changes in U.S. or non-U.S. interest rates, equity market valuations, or debt market valuations as a result of market disruption or illiquidity could affect the valuations of the third-party assets we manage or service. This can affect Northern Trust’s earnings since a significant part of the fees we earn is based on asset values. Economic conditions also affect wealth creation, investment preferences, trading activities, and savings patterns, which impact demand for the Corporation’s trust and investment products and services.  The direction and level of interest rates also are important factors, since falling rates or rates that remain very low can reduce our net interest margin — the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and other sources of funding. This, in turn, could negatively impact our net interest income and earnings. Conditions in particular markets, including matters such as currency volatility, the level of cross-border investing activity, and the demand for borrowed securities, can affect Northern Trust’s earnings from activities such as foreign exchange trading and securities lending. In addition, transaction volumes can impact Northern Trust’s earnings and may vary with economic conditions.  Our businesses and earnings also are affected by the monetary and other policies that are adopted by various regulatory authorities or central banks of the United States, non-U.S. governments and international agencies. For example, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States, and its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments. The actions of the Federal Reserve Board also can affect the value of financial instruments we hold, and its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans.  Operational Risks  In our asset servicing, investment management, and other business activities, Northern Trust effects or processes transactions for clients that involve very large amounts of money. Many factors can impact operations and expose us to risks that may vary in size, scale and scope, including human errors or omissions, defects or interruptions in computer or communications systems, breakdowns in processes, internal controls or operational infrastructure, unsuccessful or difficult implementation of systems upgrades, defects in product design or delivery, negative developments in relationships with third parties or key employees or associates in our day-to-day and ongoing operations, as well as external events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as natural disasters, epidemics, computer viruses, or terrorist events. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions may increase the risk that system flaws or human tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. Additionally, given the high volume of transactions processed by the Corporation, errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified. In recent years, we have expanded the operational support located in lower—cost areas, where the nature of the infrastructure to support such activities presents greater challenges. Our business continuity plans address many of these risks, but must operate successfully to mitigate them.  Investment Performance, Fiduciary, and Asset Servicing Risks  Revenues from our investment management, fiduciary, and asset servicing businesses are significant to our earnings. Generating risk-adjusted returns that satisfy clients in a variety of asset classes is important to maintaining existing business and attracting new business. Managing or servicing assets with reasonable prudence in accordance with the terms of governing documents and applicable laws is also important to client satisfaction. Failure to do so can generate liability, as can failure to manage the differing interests often involved in the exercise of fiduciary responsibilities or the failure to manage these risks adequately. In addition, we may find it necessary to take action or incur expenses in order to maintain client satisfaction or preserve the usefulness of investments or investment vehicles we manage in light of rating changes, liquidity or valuation issues or other developments, even though we are not required to do so by law or the terms of governing investments. These risks are accentuated when credit or equity markets are particularly volatile or when the liquidity in markets is disrupted.  Credit Risks  A number of Northern Trust’s product offerings involve credit risk, including loans, leases, and other lending commitments. We allow for and reserve against credit risks based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio (including unfunded credit commitments). This process requires us to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments. Challenges associated with our credit risk assessments include identifying the proper factors to be used in assessment and accurately estimating the impacts of those factors. Credit risk levels can also be affected by the strength of the economy in general and in the particular locales in which we extend credit, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced     26    Table of Contents  demand for credit and adverse changes in the financial performance or condition of borrowers which could impact the borrowers’ ability to repay outstanding loans. See the section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” captioned “Provision and Reserve for Credit Losses” in the 2007 Financial Annual Report to Stockholders (pages 30—32).  Liquidity Risks  Northern Trust depends on access to capital markets to provide sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients. Events or circumstances, such as a loss of confidence of debt purchasers, depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets generally or in transactions with Northern Trust, disruption in the market for debt-related securities, or a significant downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. See the section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” captioned “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in the 2007 Financial Annual Report to Stockholders (pages 22—24).  Holding Company Risks  The Corporation is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and its other subsidiaries and it relies primarily on dividends from these subsidiaries to meet its obligations and to pay dividends. There are various legal limitations on the extent to which the Bank and the other subsidiaries can supply funds to the Corporation by dividend or otherwise. If the Bank or the other subsidiaries of the Corporation were unable to supply the Corporation with funds over time, it could be unable to meet its various obligations. See “Regulation and Supervision” in Item 1 of this report.  Regulation Risks  Virtually every aspect of Northern Trust’s business around the world is regulated, generally by governmental agencies that have broad supervisory powers and the ability to impose sanctions. In the United States, the Corporation, the Bank, and many of its other subsidiaries are heavily regulated by bank regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels. These regulations, which cover a broad range of matters ranging from required capital levels to prohibited activities, are specifically directed at protecting depositors, the federal deposit insurance fund and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. The Corporation and its nonbanking subsidiaries are also heavily regulated by securities regulators, domestically and internationally.  Regulatory violations could generate penalties, require corrective actions that increase costs of conducting business, result in limitations on our ability to conduct business or restrict our ability to expand or adversely impact our reputation. Laws, regulations, and their interpretation by regulatory agencies may change or generate enhanced scrutiny of particular activities at any time. Those changes or enhanced emphasis can impose costs or otherwise affect our ability to compete successfully. In particular, evolving regulations, such as the new Basel II capital regime, and regulations that generate increased scrutiny, such as anti-money laundering procedures, can require significant time, effort, and resources on our part to ensure compliance in a rapidly changing environment. New or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry, including Northern Trust. Additionally, failure to obtain necessary approvals from regulatory agencies could adversely affect proposed acquisitions, other business opportunities and results of operations. See “Regulation and Supervision” in Item 1 of this report.  Litigation Risks  Our businesses involve the risk that clients or others may sue us, claiming that we have failed to perform under a contract or otherwise breached a duty owed to them. Our trust, custody and investment management businesses are particularly subject to this risk. Cases of this kind can involve substantial claims and be expensive to defend. We estimate our potential liability for pending and threatened claims, and accrue reserves when appropriate, by evaluating the facts of particular claims under current judicial decisions and legislative and regulatory interpretations. This process is subject to the risk that a judge or jury could decide a case contrary to our evaluation of the law or the facts, and to the risk that a court could change or modify existing law on a particular issue important to the case.  Tax and Accounting Risks  In the course of its business, Northern Trust is sometimes subject to challenges from U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. In recent years, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service has proposed to disallow tax deductions related to certain types of structured leasing transactions, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Additionally, the Financial Accounting Standards Board makes pronouncements and     27    Table of Contents  adjustments to its existing accounting guidance that may impact the manner in which the Corporation accounts for certain of its transactions.  Strategic and Competitive Risks  We have grown through a combination of internal expansion and the acquisition of selected businesses or capabilities, and we intend to continue to do so. Failure to integrate a substantial acquisition would have an adverse effect on our business, as would the failure to execute successfully a significant internal expansion. The challenges arising from the integration of an acquired business or significant expansion of an existing business may include preserving valuable relationships with employees, clients, suppliers, and other business partners, as well as combining accounting, data processing and internal control systems. Our growth also depends upon successful, consistent execution of our business strategies in both PFS and C&IS, and a failure to do so could negatively impact growth.  We provide a broad range of financial products and services in highly competitive markets, in which pricing can be a key competitive factor. Merger activity in the financial services industry continues to produce large, well-capitalized, and geographically-diverse companies that are capable of offering a wide array of financial products and services at competitive prices. In certain businesses, such as foreign exchange trading, electronic networks present a competitive challenge. Additionally, technological advances and the growth of internet-based commerce have made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer a variety of products and services competitive with certain areas of our business. Many of these non-traditional service providers have fewer regulatory constraints, and some have lower cost structures.  Our success in this competitive environment requires consistent investment of capital and human resources in innovation. This investment is directed at generating new products and services, and adapting existing products and services to the evolving standards and demands of the marketplace. Among other things, this helps us maintain a mix of products and services that keeps pace with our competitors and achieve acceptable margins, an important strategic goal. This investment also focuses on enhancing the delivery of our products and services in order to compete successfully for new clients or additional business from existing clients, and includes investment in technological innovation as well. Falling behind our competition in any of these areas could adversely affect our business opportunities and growth. Our success in controlling the costs and expenses of our business operations also impacts operating results. Another goal of innovation, as a part of our business strategy, is to produce efficiencies in operations that help reduce and control costs and expenses, including the costs of losses associated with operating risks attributable to servicing and managing financial assets.  Reputation Risks  An important reason that clients bring their business to Northern Trust is that they believe we will serve them with high standards of ethics, performance, accuracy, and compliance. Damage to our reputation for delivery of this high level of service could undermine the confidence of clients and prospects in our ability to serve them. Damage to our reputation also could affect the confidence of counterparties, rating agencies, and stockholders in Northern Trust, and ultimately affect our ability to manage our balance sheet or effect transactions. The maintenance of our reputation depends not only on our success in controlling or mitigating the various risks described above, but also on our success in identifying and appropriately addressing issues that may arise in such areas as: potential conflicts of interest and other ethical issues; anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing procedures; customer personal information and privacy issues; data security; record-keeping; regulatory investigations of Northern Trust or within the banking industry; and any litigation that arises from the failure or perceived failure of Northern Trust to comply with legal and regulatory requirements.  Many of the risks described above are discussed in more detail in the sections of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” captioned “Risk Management,” “Market Risk Management,” and “Operational Risk Management” in the 2007 Financial Annual Report to Stockholders (pages 24—34), in the section of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in the 2007 Financial Annual Report to Stockholders captioned “Note 25, Contingent Liabilities” (pages 66—67), and in the sections of “Item 1 – Business” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K captioned “Government Monetary and Fiscal Policies,” “Competition” and “Regulation and Supervision” (pages 3—11).  Additionally, the risks described above may cause actual results to differ from the Corporation’s current expectations of future events or future results indicated in what are considered “forward-looking statements” of the Corporation. Forward-looking statements and factors that may affect future results are also discussed in the section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” captioned “Factors Affecting Future Results” in the 2007 Financial Annual Report to Stockholders (pages 34—35).   Item 1B—Unresolved Staff Comments