Item 1A. Risk Factors  Recent legislative actions may have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s operations.  In July 2010, President Obama signed into law the regulatory reform legislation known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. This new law broadly affects the financial services industry, particularly those entities considered to be “systemically important”, such as bank holding companies with assets of over $50 billion, including BNY Mellon, by establishing a framework for systemic risk oversight, creating a liquidation authority, mandating higher capital and liquidity requirements, requiring banks to pay increased fees to regulatory agencies and numerous other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector.  Among numerous other provisions of the law that could have an effect on BNY Mellon are:      •    A change in the assessment base for federal deposit insurance from the amount of insured deposits to consolidated assets less tangible equity. Unless special rules are adopted to mitigate the disproportionate burden on custody banks, this change likely will result in significantly higher deposit insurance assessments for banks with substantial international operations, including The Bank of New York Mellon.    •    The exclusion over a three year period, beginning on Jan. 1, 2013, of trust preferred securities from our Tier 1 capital.    •    The potential designation of BNY Mellon as a “financial market utility” (defined to include persons that manage or operate a multilateral system for the purpose of transferring, clearing or settling payments, securities or other transactions among financial institutions, including repurchase agreements) may subject us to increased regulation and supervision. The definition of these terms, and the relevant requirements, are subject to future rulemaking.  Although we cannot predict how regulatory implementation of the law will occur, the related findings of various regulatory and commission studies, the interpretations issued as part of the rulemaking process and the final regulations that are issued with respect to various elements of the new law may cause changes that impact the profitability of our business activities and require that we change certain of our business practices, and could expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These changes may also require    BNY Mellon 103    Table of Contents Part II – Other Information (continued)       us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes.   Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds