Item 1A. Risk Factors  The following discussion supplements the discussion of risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations set forth in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, on pages 16 through 26 of our Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010. The discussion of Risk Factors, as so supplemented, sets forth our most significant risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, other factors, besides those discussed below or in Item IA of our Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010 or other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, also could adversely affect our business or results. We cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this report and such other reports address all potential risks that we may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this Form 10-Q. See “Forward-looking Statements.”  Disruptions in European economies, or the failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties in Europe, many of whom are major financial institutions, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  The financial markets remain concerned about the ability of certain European countries, particularly Greece, Ireland and Portugal, but also others such as Spain and Italy, to finance their deficits and service growing debt burdens amidst difficult economic  conditions. This loss of confidence has led to rescue measures for Greece, Ireland and Portugal by Euro-zone countries and the International Monetary Fund as well as the European Central Bank’s intervention to stabilize Italian and Spanish bonds. The actions required to be taken by those countries as a condition to rescue packages, and by other countries to mitigate similar developments in their economies, have resulted in increased political discord within and among Eurozone countries. We are primarily exposed to disruptions in European markets in two principal areas – on our balance sheet, in certain interest-bearing deposits with banks, loans, trading assets and investment securities, as well as our Investment Management fee revenue relating to client investments in European assets. Additionally, continued disruptions in Europe could lead to increased client deposits and a larger balance sheet, which could adversely impact our leverage ratio.  The interdependencies among European economies and financial institutions have contributed to concerns regarding the stability of European financial markets generally and certain institutions in particular. Financial services institutions are interdependent as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We routinely execute transactions with European counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults or non-performance by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more European financial institutions, or the financial markets generally, have in the past led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses by us or by other institutions in the future. Given the scope of our European operations, clients and counterparties, persistent disruptions in the European financial markets, the attempt of a country to abandon the Euro, the failure of a significant European financial institution, even if not an immediate counterparty to us, or persistent weakness in the Euro, could have an adverse impact on our business or results of operations.     118 BNY Mellon    Table of Contents Part II – Other Information (continued)    Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds