Item 1A. Risk Factors  The following discussion supplements the discussion of risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations set forth in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, on pages 21 through 35 of our Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011 and pages 121-122 of our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. The discussion of Risk Factors, as so supplemented, sets forth our most significant risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, other factors, besides those discussed below or in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011 or our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 or other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, also could adversely affect our business or results. We cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this report and such other reports address all potential risks that we may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this Form 10-Q. See “Forward-looking Statements.”  Tri-Party Repo Business – We have credit, regulatory and reputation risks as a result of our tri-party repo agent services, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.  BNY Mellon offers tri-party agent services to dealers and cash investors active in the tri-party repurchase market. BNY Mellon currently has approximately 80% of the market share of the U.S. tri-party repo market. As a tri-party repo agent, we facilitate settlement between dealers (cash borrowers) and investors (cash lenders). Our involvement in a transaction commences after a dealer and a cash investor agree to a tri-party repo trade and send instructions to us. We maintain custody of the collateral (the subject securities of the repo) and execute the payment and delivery instructions agreed to and provided by the principals.   Providing these tri-party repo agent services to dealers and cash investors involves credit risk at certain points in time. To facilitate the tri-party repo market, we extend secured intraday credit to dealers. In the event of a default by a dealer to whom we have extended secured intraday credit, we would be at risk for the market value of the collateral securing such intraday credit, and to the defaulting dealer for any shortfall after the liquidation of such collateral, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Once a tri-party trade settles, however, BNY Mellon is no longer exposed to that dealer default risk.  BNY Mellon is working to reduce significantly the secured intraday credit we provide. We have implemented several measures in that regard, including: (1) a later day unwind for most maturing tri-party repos to reduce the time of our exposure; (2) an auto collateral exchange process that allows dealers to replace pledged collateral by first over-collateralizing with cash; and (3) a three-way trade confirmation process known as automated deal matching to ensure accuracy and transparency. These efforts are consistent with the recommendations reported on May 17, 2010 by the Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure Reform Task Force that was sponsored by the Payments Risk Committee of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and included representatives from a diverse group of market participants, including BNY Mellon. Additionally, beginning in early 2013, we expect that eligibility for intraday credit associated with tri-party repo transactions will be limited to certain more liquid asset classes that will result in a reduction of exposures secured by less liquid forms of collateral by dealers.  We anticipate that the combination of these measures will have reduced risks substantially in our tri-party repo activity in the near term and, together with technology enhancements currently in development will achieve the practical elimination of intraday credit in this activity, by the end of 2014. We believe the steps we are taking are responsive to recent concerns voiced publicly by regulators that dealers and investors should reduce reliance on intraday credit provided by their tri-party repo agents and make risk management practices more resilient to a stress event in the tri-party repo market. We anticipate that regulators will continue to monitor the actions of market participants and use available supervisory tools to encourage constructive and timely action to reduce sources of risk in the tri-party market. Failure to meet regulatory expectations could result in regulatory and reputation risk and additional costs.     BNY Mellon 121    Table of Contents Part II — Other Information (continued)    Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds