Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following discussion supplements the discussion of risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations set forth in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, on pages 95 through 121 of our 2015 Annual Report. The discussion of Risk Factors, as so supplemented, sets forth our most significant risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, other factors, besides those discussed below or in our 2015 Annual Report or other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, also could adversely affect our business or results. We cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this report and such other reports address all potential risks that we may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this Form 10-Q. See Forward-looking Statements. The application of our preferred resolution strategy could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and our security holders. Following the receipt of feedback from the Federal Reserve and the FDIC in April 2016 on our 2015 resolution plan, we determined that, in the event of our material financial distress or failure, our preferred resolution strategy under Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act would be a single point of entry strategy. Under this strategy, before commencing proceedings in a U.S. Bankruptcy Court, we would recapitalize and provide liquidity to certain major subsidiaries with the goal of enabling these subsidiaries to continue operating. Following the recapitalizations and provision of liquidity, we would be resolved under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In connection with the development of the single point of entry strategy, we intend to enter into a support agreement with certain of our major subsidiaries to facilitate the recapitalizations and  provision of liquidity. The support agreement is expected to require us to pledge a significant amount of our assets to support our obligations to recapitalize and provide liquidity to our major subsidiaries. We expect to continue to have sufficient liquidity to meet our obligations during business-as-usual circumstances. The terms of the support agreement have not been finalized and may change, possibly materially, from our current expectations. Consistent with the Federal Reserve’s proposal regarding total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) and the FDIC’s single point of entry strategy under Title II’s Orderly Liquidation Authority, our single point of entry strategy and associated support agreement is being developed so that our shareholders and unsecured creditors bear any losses resulting from our bankruptcy. Consequently, if we were to become subject to a bankruptcy proceeding and our single point of entry strategy is successful, creditors of some or all of our major subsidiaries would receive full recoveries on their claims, while our security holders could face significant losses, potentially including the loss of their entire investment. If this strategy is implemented and is not successful, our security holders may be in a worse position than if the strategy had not been implemented (and the recapitalizations and provision of liquidity had not occurred) because assets provided to our major subsidiaries would not be available to pay the holders of our securities. The result of the United Kingdom’s referendum on whether to remain part of the European Union has had and may continue to have negative effects on global economic conditions, global financial markets, and our business and results of operations.  On June 23, 2016, the UK held a referendum on whether the UK should remain part of the EU, the outcome of which was a vote in favor of withdrawing from the EU. The result of the referendum has created an uncertain political and economic environment in the UK and may create such environments in other EU member states. Political and economic uncertainty has in the past led to, and the outcome of the referendum and the withdrawal of the UK from the EU could lead to, declines in market liquidity and activity levels, volatile market conditions, a contraction of available credit, lower or negative interest rates, weaker economic growth and reduced business confidence. Market disruptions, as well as adverse market and economic conditions, could, among other things, have a negative effect on BNY Mellon 111 Part II - Other Information (continued) our fee revenues and lead to a “flight to safety,” which could result in increases in our client deposits and assets, altering the size and composition of our balance sheet and adversely affecting our leverage-based regulatory capital ratios.  The result of the referendum means that the long-term nature of the UK’s relationship with the EU is unclear (including with respect to the laws and regulations that will apply as the UK determines which EU laws to replicate or replace), and there is considerable uncertainty as to when the framework for any such relationship governing both the access of the UK to European markets and the access of EU Member States to the UK’s markets will be determined and implemented. As a result of the referendum, we, including our EU affiliates, may face additional operational, regulatory and compliance costs. In addition, the regulatory, tax and supervisory regimes applicable to our UK operations and those of its EU affiliates and their dealings with other EU member states are expected to change; however, the nature and timing of such changes are uncertain and cannot be predicted. Certain of our EU operations are conducted through a UK branch of The Bank of New York Mellon and subsidiaries located in the UK and other EU member states. If our UK subsidiaries are not able to retain their EU financial services  “passport,” which permits cross-border services and activities throughout the single EU market without needing to obtain local authorizations, we may incur costs to move operations and, potentially, personnel from our UK branch and subsidiaries to our subsidiaries based in other EU member states. The outcome of the referendum has also created uncertainty with regard to the regulation of data protection in the UK and the transfer of data to and from the UK.  Following the referendum, volatility in the exchange rate for the British pound has increased. The decrease in the British pound compared to the U.S. dollar since the referendum has had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on our Investment Management business, which typically has more non-U.S. dollar denominated revenues than expenses. Volatility in exchange rates may also have a negative effect on our Investment Services business, which typically has more non-U.S. dollar denominated expenses than revenues.  The effects of the result of the referendum, including those described above, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.   112 BNY MellonPart II - Other Information (continued) Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds