Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following discussion supplements the discussion of risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations set forth in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, on pages 90 through 116 of our 2016 Annual Report. The discussion of Risk Factors, as so supplemented, sets forth our most significant risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, other factors, besides that discussed below or in our 2016 Annual Report or other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, also could adversely affect our business or results. We cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this report and such other reports address all potential risks that we may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this Form 10-Q. See Forward-looking Statements. If our resolution plan is determined not to be credible or not to facilitate an orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition could be materially negatively impacted. The application of our Title I preferred resolution strategy or resolution under the Title II orderly liquidation authority could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and our security holders.Large BHCs must develop and submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC for review plans for their rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. BNY Mellon and The Bank of New York Mellon each file periodic complementary resolution plans. In April 2016, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC jointly determined that our 2015 resolution plan was not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The agencies issued a joint notice of deficiencies and shortcomings and the actions that  must be taken to address them, which we responded to in an Oct. 1, 2016 submission. In December 2016, the agencies jointly determined that our Oct. 1, 2016 submission adequately remedied the identified deficiencies. If the agencies determine that our future submissions are not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and we fail to address the deficiencies in a timely manner, the agencies may jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on our growth, activities or operations. If we continue to fail to adequately remedy any deficiencies identified in future submissions, we could be required to divest assets or operations that the agencies determine necessary to facilitate our orderly resolution.Following the receipt of feedback from the Federal Reserve and the FDIC in April 2016 on our 2015 resolution plan, we determined that, in the event of our material financial distress or failure, our preferred resolution strategy under Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act is a single point of entry strategy. In connection with our single point of entry resolution strategy, we have established the IHC to facilitate the provision of capital and liquidity resources to certain key subsidiaries in the event of material financial distress or failure. In the second quarter of 2017, we entered into a binding support agreement that required the IHC to provide that support. The support agreement required the Parent to transfer its intercompany loans and most of its cash to the IHC, and requires the Parent to continue to transfer cash and other liquid financial assets to the IHC. If our projected liquidity resources deteriorate so severely that resolution of the Parent becomes imminent, the committed line of credit the IHC provided to the Parent will automatically terminate, with all amounts outstanding becoming due and payable, and the support agreement will require the Parent to transfer most of its remaining assets (other than stock in subsidiaries and a cash reserve to fund bankruptcy expenses) to the IHC. As a result, during a period of severe financial stress the Parent might commence bankruptcy proceedings at an earlier time than it otherwise would if the support agreement had not been implemented.If the Parent were to become subject to a bankruptcy proceeding and our single point of entry strategy is successful, creditors of some or all of our material BNY Mellon 109 Part II - Other Information (continued) entities would receive full recoveries on their claims, while the Parent’s security holders, including unsecured debt holders, could face significant losses, potentially including the loss of their entire investment. It is possible that the application of the single point of entry strategy – in which the Parent would be the only legal entity to enter resolution proceedings – could result in greater losses to holders of our unsecured debt securities and other securities than the losses that could result from the application of a different resolution strategy. Further, if the single point of entry strategy is not successful, our liquidity and financial condition would be adversely affected and our security holders may, as a consequence, be in a worse position than if the strategy had not been implemented.In addition, Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act established an orderly liquidation process in the event of the failure of a large systemically important financial institution, such as BNY Mellon, in order to avoid or mitigate serious adverse effects on the U.S. financial system. Specifically, when a U.S. G-SIB, such as BNY Mellon is in default or danger of default, and certain specified conditions are met, the FDIC may be appointed receiver under the orderly liquidation authority, and BNY Mellon would be resolved under that authority instead of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.  U.S. supervisors have indicated that a single point of entry strategy may be a desirable strategy to resolve a large financial institution such as BNY Mellon under Title II in a manner that would, similar to our preferred strategy under our Title I resolution plan, impose losses on shareholders, unsecured debt holders and other unsecured creditors of the top-tier holding company (in our case, the Parent), while permitting the holding company’s subsidiaries to continue to operate and remain solvent. Under such a strategy, assuming the Parent entered resolution proceedings and its subsidiaries remained solvent, losses at the subsidiary level could be transferred to the Parent and ultimately borne by the Parent’s security holders (including holders of the Parent’s unsecured debt securities), while third-party creditors of the Parent’s subsidiaries would receive full recoveries on their claims. Accordingly, the Parent’s security holders (including holders of unsecured debt securities and other unsecured creditors) could face losses in excess of what otherwise would have been the case. 110 BNY MellonPart II - Other Information (continued) Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds