Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  The risk factors set forth below update the risk factors section previously disclosed in Item 1A of Part I of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.  The current financial crisis has resulted in unprecedented levels of market volatility. Governmental initiatives intended to alleviate the crisis that have been adopted may not be effective and, in any event, may be accompanied by other initiatives, including new capital requirements or other regulations, that could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity in ways that we cannot predict.  Markets in the United States and elsewhere have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than 12 months, due in part to the financial stresses affecting the liquidity of the banking system and the financial markets generally. In recent weeks, this volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. These circumstances have also exerted downward pressure on stock prices and reduced access to the debt markets for certain issuers, including us. This unprecedented market volatility and general decline in the equity markets has directly and materially affected our results of operations and our investment portfolio.  Legislation has been passed in an attempt to stabilize the financial markets. This legislation includes a provision to grant the U.S. Treasury Department the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions. This legislation or similar proposals, as well as companion actions such as monetary or fiscal actions of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board or comparable authorities in other countries, may fail to stabilize the financial markets. This legislation and other proposals or actions may also have other consequences, including material effects on interest rates and foreign exchange rates, which could materially affect our investments, results of operations and liquidity in ways that we cannot predict. The failure to effectively implement this legislation and related proposals or actions could also result in material adverse effects, notably increased constraints on the liquidity available in the banking system and financial markets and increased pressure on stock prices, any of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In the event of future material deterioration in business conditions, we may need to raise additional capital or consider other transactions to manage our capital position or our liquidity.  In addition, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities and non-governmental self-regulatory agencies, including foreign regulators, state insurance regulators, state securities administrators, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the New York Stock Exchange, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the Financial Services Agency in Japan, the Financial Services Authority in the U.K., the U.S. Department of Justice and state attorneys general. In light of the current financial crisis, some of these authorities are or may in the future consider enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or otherwise assure the stability of institutions under their supervision. These authorities may also seek to exercise their supervisory or enforcement authority in new or more robust ways. All of these possibilities, if they occurred, could affect the way we conduct our business and manage our capital, and may require us to satisfy increased capital requirements, any of which in turn could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  The markets in the United States and elsewhere have been experiencing extreme and unprecedented volatility and disruption. We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, and foreign exchange rates which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.  The markets in the United States and elsewhere have been experiencing extreme and unprecedented volatility and disruption. We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates.  Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. A rise in interest rates, in the absence of other countervailing changes, will increase the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio and, if long-term interest rates rise dramatically within a six to twelve month time period, certain of our Life businesses may be exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate assets in an unrealized loss position. Due to the long-term nature of the liabilities associated with certain of our Life businesses, such as structured settlements and guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, sustained declines in long term interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging costs. In other situations, declines in interest rates or changes in credit spreads may result in reducing the duration of certain Life liabilities, creating asset liability duration mismatches and possibly lower spread income.  Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. With the recent widening of credit spreads, the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio has increased, as have other than temporary impairments. If issuer credit spreads continue to widen or increase significantly over an extended period of time, it would likely exacerbate these effects, resulting in greater and additional other-than-temporary impairments. Increased losses have also occurred associated with credit based non-qualifying derivatives where the Company assumes credit exposure. If credit spreads tighten significantly, it will reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturities. In addition, a reduction in market liquidity has made it difficult to value certain of our securities as trading has become less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may be more susceptible to significant period to period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition.   163    Table of Contents  Our statutory surplus is also impacted by widening credit spreads as a result of the accounting for the assets and liabilities on our fixed market value adjusted (“MVA”) annuities. Statutory separate account assets supporting the fixed MVA annuities are recorded at fair value. In determining the statutory reserve for the fixed MVA annuities we are required to use current crediting rates in the U.S. and Japanese LIBOR in Japan. In many capital market scenarios, current crediting rates in the U.S. are highly correlated with market rates implicit in the fair value of statutory separate account assets. As a result, the change in the statutory reserve from period to period will likely substantially offset the change in the fair value of the statutory separate account assets. However, in periods of volatile credit markets, such as we are now experiencing, actual credit spreads on investment assets may increase sharply for certain sub-sectors of the overall credit market, resulting in statutory separate account asset market value losses. As actual credit spreads are not fully reflected in current crediting rates in the U.S. or Japanese LIBOR in Japan, the calculation of statutory reserves will not substantially offset the change in fair value of the statutory separate account assets resulting in reductions in statutory surplus. This has resulted and may continue to result in the need to devote significant additional capital to support the product. One important primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our Life businesses, such as variable annuities, where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the assets under management. During the course of 2008, the declines in equity markets have negatively impacted assets under management. As a result, fee income earned off of those assets has also been negatively impacted. In addition, certain of our Life products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline. Due to declines in equity markets during 2008, our liability for these guaranteed benefits has increased. We are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations. Sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans.  Our primary foreign currency exchange risks are related to net income from foreign operations, non–U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries, our yen-denominated individual fixed annuity product, and certain guaranteed benefits associated with the Japan variable annuity. These risks relate to potential decreases in value and income resulting from a strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar. In general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will unfavorably affect net income from foreign operations, the value of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and realized gains or losses on the yen denominated individual fixed annuity product. In comparison, a strengthening of the Japanese yen in comparison to the U.S. dollar and other currencies may increase our exposure to the guarantee benefits associated with the Japan variable annuity.  If significant, declines in equity prices, changes in U.S. interest rates, changes in credit spreads and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.  In addition, in the conduct of our business, there could be scenarios where in order to fulfill our obligations and to raise incremental liquidity, we would need to sell assets at a loss due to the unrealized loss position in our overall investment portfolio and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Declines in equity markets and changes in interest rates and credit spreads can also negatively impact the fair values of each of our segments. If a significant decline in the fair value of a segment occurred and this resulted in an excess of that segment’s book value over fair value, the goodwill assigned to that segment might be impaired and could cause the Company to record a charge to impair a part or all of the related goodwill assets.  We may be unable to effectively mitigate the impact of equity market volatility on our financial position and results of operations arising from obligations under annuity product guarantees, which may affect our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  Some of the products offered by our life businesses, especially variable annuities, offer certain guaranteed benefits which, as a result of any decline in equity markets would not only result in potentially lower earnings, but may also increase our exposure to liability for benefit claims. During the course of 2008, as equity markets have declined, our liability for guaranteed benefits has increased. We are also subject to equity market volatility related to these benefits, especially the guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (“GMWB”), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit (“GMAB”) and guaranteed minimum income benefit (“GMIB”) offered with variable annuity products. We use reinsurance structures and have modified benefit features to mitigate the exposure associated with GMDB. We also use reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments to minimize the claim exposure and the volatility of net income associated with the GMWB liability. While we believe that these and other actions we have taken mitigate the risks related to these benefits, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay, and are subject to the risk that other management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed, which individually or collectively may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.   164    Table of Contents  Losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities (which include structured securities such as commercial mortgage backed securities and residential mortgage backed securities or other high yielding bonds) or reinsurance and derivative instrument counterparties, could adversely affect the value of our investments, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  Issuers or borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. Such defaults could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, the underlying assets supporting our structured securities may deteriorate causing these securities to incur losses.  Our investment portfolio includes investment securities in the financial services sector that have experienced defaults recently. Further defaults could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  The Company is not exposed to any credit concentration risk of a single issuer greater than 10% of the Company’s stockholders’ equity other than U.S. government and U.S. government agencies backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. However, if the Company’s creditors are acquired, merge or otherwise consolidate with other creditors of the Company’s, the Company’s credit concentration risk could increase above the 10% threshold, for a period of time, until the Company is able to sell securities to get back in compliance with the established investment credit policies.  The amount of statutory capital that we have and the amount of statutory capital that we must hold to maintain our financial strength and credit ratings and meet other requirements can vary significantly from time to time and is sensitive to a number of factors outside of our control, including equity market and credit market conditions and changes in rating agency models.  We conduct the vast majority of our business through licensed insurance company subsidiaries. Accounting standards and statutory capital and reserve requirements for these entities are prescribed by the applicable insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”). The NAIC has established regulations that provide minimum capitalization requirements based on risk-based capital (“RBC”) formulas for both life and property and casualty companies. The RBC formula for life companies establishes capital requirements relating to insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks, including equity, interest rate and expense recovery risks associated with variable annuities and group annuities that contain death benefits or certain living benefits. The RBC formula for property and casualty companies adjusts statutory surplus levels for certain underwriting, asset, credit and off-balance sheet risks.   In any particular year, statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios may increase or decrease depending on a variety of factors – the amount of statutory income or losses generated by our insurance subsidiaries (which itself is sensitive to equity market and credit market conditions), the amount of additional capital our insurance subsidiaries must hold to support business growth, changes in equity market levels, the value of certain fixed-income and equity securities in our investment portfolio, the value of certain derivative instruments that do not get hedge accounting, changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, as well as changes to the NAIC RBC formulas. Most of these factors are outside of the Company’s control. The Company’s financial strength and credit ratings are significantly influenced by the statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios of our insurance company subsidiaries. In addition, rating agencies may implement changes to their internal models that have the effect of increasing or decreasing the amount of statutory capital we must hold in order to maintain our current ratings. In addition, in extreme scenarios of equity market declines, the amount of additional statutory reserves that we are required to hold for our variable annuity guarantees increases at a greater than linear rate. This reduces the statutory surplus used in calculating our RBC ratios. To the extent that our statutory capital resources are deemed to be insufficient to maintain a particular rating by one or more rating agencies, we may seek to raise additional capital through public or private equity or debt financing. Alternatively, if we were not to raise additional capital in such a scenario, either at our discretion or because we were unable to do so, our financial strength and credit ratings might be downgraded by one or more rating agencies.  We may experience a downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings, which may make our products less attractive, increase our cost of capital and inhibit our ability to refinance our debt, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  Financial strength and credit ratings, including commercial paper ratings, are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Rating agencies assign ratings based upon several factors. While most of the factors relate to the rated company, some of the factors relate to the views of the rating agency, general economic conditions, and circumstances outside the rated company’s control. In addition, rating agencies may employ different models and formulas to assess the financial strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies have, in their discretion, altered these models. Changes to the models, general economic conditions, or circumstances outside our control could impact a rating agency’s judgment of its rating and the rating it assigns us. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may be required to take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which may adversely affect us.  Our financial strength ratings, which are intended to measure our ability to meet policyholder obligations, are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of our products and, as a result, our competitiveness. A downgrade, or an announced potential downgrade in the rating of our financial strength or of one of our principal insurance subsidiaries could affect our competitive position in the insurance industry and make it more difficult for us to market our products, as potential customers may select companies with higher financial strength ratings.   165    Table of Contents  A downgrade of our credit ratings, or an announced potential downgrade, could affect our ability to raise additional debt with terms and conditions similar to our current debt, and accordingly, would likely increase our cost of capital. A downgrade of our credit ratings could also make it more difficult to raise capital to refinance any maturing debt obligations, to support business growth at our insurance subsidiaries and to maintain or improve the current financial strength ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries described above. As of September 30, 2008, a downgrade of four levels below our current insurance financial strength levels could begin to trigger material collateral calls on certain of our derivative instruments. If any of these negative events were to occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected.    Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS