Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  The risk factors set forth below update the risk factors section previously disclosed in Item 1A of Part I of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and in Item1A of Part II of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.  Persistent stress in global financial markets and recessionary economic conditions worldwide have continued to pressure our capital position and adversely affect our business and results in material ways. Our participation in the Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”) of the U.S. Treasury Department (“Treasury”) may not be sufficient to stabilize our ratings, particularly if challenging economic conditions persist, and we could be required to take other material actions, including potential capital raising activities, that may adversely affect our business and results or trading prices for our common stock.  Persistent stress in financial markets and recessionary global economic conditions have continued to pressure our capital position and adversely affect our operations and results in the second quarter of 2009, and the impact and potential effects of governmental stimulus, budgetary and other financial measures in the world’s major economies remain uncertain. Our capital position is likely to remain under pressure if the recessionary economic environment is prolonged. In addition, our long-term debt and financial strength ratings have been downgraded by the major rating agencies several times in 2009. If we cannot stabilize our ratings and strengthen our capital resources, our business, results and prospects could continue to be adversely affected, particularly if economic conditions remain challenging. Certain of our Life and Property-Casualty lines of business have been particularly adversely affected by these conditions.  Because financial markets have remained volatile in 2009, we also expect continuing pressure on returns in our life and property and casualty investment portfolios. Fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could result in investment losses that impact the Company’s financial condition, statutory capital and results of operations through realized and unrealized losses. In addition, investments we own have experienced and could continue to experience rating agency downgrades. These rating agency downgrades have negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact our statutory capital and RBC ratios.  Although we closed on a definitive agreement to participate in the CPP in the amount of $3.4 billion, if economic conditions worsen, our participation in the CPP may not be sufficient to stabilize our ratings and to mitigate and reduce risks associated with various business lines and our investment portfolio. Depending on the circumstances at the time, there may be limited alternatives available to us.  To strengthen our capital position, we could seek to raise additional capital in the public or private markets. In June 2009, we entered into a distribution agreement in connection with the launch of our discretionary equity issuance program which provides for the sales of an indeterminate number of shares of common stock up to the number of shares that will result in gross proceeds of $750, subject to a maximum of 60 million shares. Further, we may in the future seek to access the public or private capital markets to repay the funds received through our participation in the CPP. We cannot assure you that we would have access to the capital markets on favorable terms or at all. Moreover, the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or that represent the right to receive common stock, or the exercise of such securities, could be substantially dilutive to stockholders of our common stock or could require us to make additional payments under our investment agreement with Allianz. Holders of our shares of common stock are not entitled to any preemptive rights by virtue of their status as stockholders that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. Trading prices for our common stock could decline as a result of sales of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or in anticipation of such sales.  Although we closed on a definitive investment agreement to participate in the CPP in the amount of $3.4 billion during the second quarter of 2009, our participation will subject us to additional restrictions, oversight and costs, and have other potential consequences, that could materially affect our business, results and prospects.  In the second quarter of 2009, we closed on a definitive investment agreement to participate in the Treasury’s CPP in the amount of $3.4 billion. Although participation in the CPP is an important component of our strategy to enhance our capital position and financial flexibility, our participation will subject us to additional restrictions, oversight and costs, and have other potential consequences, that could materially affect our business, results and prospects, including the following:     •   Our acceptance of CPP funds could cause us to be perceived as having greater capital needs and weaker overall financial prospects than those of our competitors that have stated that they do not intend to participate in the CPP, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results, including new product sales and policy retention rates, and depress trading prices for our common stock.     162    Table of Contents     •   As a condition to our participation in CPP, we acquired Federal Trust Corporation, the parent company of Federal Trust Bank (“FTB”), a federally chartered, FDIC-insured thrift, in the second quarter of 2009. As a result, as a savings and loan holding company, we will be subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”) and OTS reporting requirements. In addition, as previously reported, we are required to be a source of strength to FTB, which could require further capital contributions. As a savings and loan holding company, we are subject to the requirement that our activities be financially-related activities as defined by federal law (which includes insurance activities), and OTS has enforcement authority over us, including the right to pursue administrative orders or penalties and the right to restrict or prohibit activities determined by OTS to be a serious risk to FTB.       •   Receipt of CPP funds subjects us to restrictions, oversight and costs that may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results or the trading prices for our common stock. For example, the recently enacted American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 contains significant limitations on the amount and form of bonus, retention and other incentive compensation that participants in the CPP may pay to executive officers and senior management. These provisions may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain executive officers and other key personnel. Other regulatory initiatives applicable to participants in federal funding programs may also be forthcoming as the U.S. government continues to address dislocations in the financial markets. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner.       •   Future federal statutes may adversely affect the terms of the CPP that are applicable to us and the Treasury may amend the terms of our agreement with them unilaterally if required by future statutes, including in a manner materially adverse to us.    The decisions that we have made in connection with our review of strategic alternatives may not achieve the anticipated benefits, may not be sufficient to stabilize our ratings and mitigate and reduce risks associated with various business lines and our investment portfolio, particularly if the current market conditions persist or deteriorate.  In the second quarter of 2009, we completed a review of several strategic alternatives with a goal of preserving capital, reducing risk and stabilizing our ratings. These alternatives included the potential restructuring, discontinuation or disposition of various business lines. Following that review, we determined to suspend all new sales in Japan and the United Kingdom and to close our German branch. While we are pursuing options for our Institutional business with the goals of preserving capital and reducing risks, we determined not to pursue other alternatives in light of market conditions and our expectations with respect to our core portfolio of protection businesses, particularly property and casualty, group benefits and life insurance. We also determined to retain our wealth management and retirement business, including mutual funds, retirement plans and a restructured annuities business. These decisions may not achieve the anticipated benefits and could have an adverse effect on sales in certain lines of business, and even taken together with our participation in the CPP, may not be sufficient to stabilize our ratings and mitigate and reduce risks associated with our various business lines.  We recently adjusted our risk management program relating to products we offer with guaranteed benefits to emphasize protection of statutory surplus, which will likely result in greater U.S. GAAP volatility in our earnings and potentially material charges to net income in periods of rising equity market pricing levels.  Some of the products offered by our life businesses, especially variable annuities, offer certain guaranteed benefits which, in the event of a decline in equity markets, would not only result in lower earnings, but will also increase our exposure to liability for benefit claims. During 2008 and early 2009, our liability for guaranteed benefits increased significantly as equity markets declined. We are also subject to equity market volatility related to these benefits, especially the guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (“GMWB”), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit (“GMAB”) and guaranteed minimum income benefit (“GMIB”) offered with variable annuity products. As of June 30, 2009, the liability for GMWB and GMAB was $3.3 billion and $(2), respectively. At that date, the liability for GMIB and GMDB was a combined $1.1 billion, net of reinsurance. We use reinsurance structures and have modified benefit features to mitigate the exposure associated with GMDB. We also use reinsurance in combination with a modification of benefit features and derivative instruments to attempt to minimize the claim exposure and to reduce the volatility of net income associated with the GMWB liability. However, due to the severe economic conditions in the fourth quarter of 2008, we adjusted our risk management program to place greater relative emphasis on the protection of statutory surplus. This shift in relative emphasis will likely result in greater U.S. GAAP earnings volatility and, based upon the types of hedging instruments used, can result in potentially material charges to net income in periods of rising equity market pricing levels. While we believe that these actions have improved the efficiency of our risk management related to these benefits, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. We are also subject to the risk that other management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed, which individually or collectively may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.   163    Table of Contents  The markets in the United States and elsewhere have been experiencing extreme and unprecedented volatility and disruption. We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and global real estate market deterioration which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  The markets in the United States and elsewhere have been experiencing and in certain markets are expected to continue to experience extreme and unprecedented volatility and disruption. We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices foreign currency exchange rates and global real estate market deterioration.  One important exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our Life businesses, such as variable annuities, where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the assets under management. The significant declines in equity markets over the last twelve to eighteen months have negatively impacted assets under management. As a result, fee income earned from those assets has also been negatively impacted. In addition, certain of our Life products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential obligation and statutory capital exposure should equity markets decline. Due to declines in equity markets, our liability for these guaranteed benefits has significantly increased and our statutory capital position has decreased. Further sustained declines in equity markets during 2009 and beyond may result in the need to devote significant additional capital to support these products. We are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations. Sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns are likely to have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans.  Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. A rise in interest rates, in the absence of other countervailing changes, will increase the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio and, if long-term interest rates rise dramatically within a six to twelve month time period, certain of our Life businesses may be exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate assets in an unrealized loss position. Due to the long-term nature of the liabilities associated with certain of our Life businesses, such as structured settlements and guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, sustained declines in long term interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging costs. In other situations, declines in interest rates or changes in credit spreads may result in reducing the duration of certain Life liabilities, creating asset liability duration mismatches and lower spread income.  Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. The overall widening of credit spreads over the last twelve to eighteen months has contributed to the increase in the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio which, as of June 30, 2009, was $11.5 billion, before DAC effects and tax, and has also contributed to increases in other-than-temporary impairments. If issuer credit spreads widen significantly or retain historically wide levels over an extended period of time, these effects will likely exacerbate, resulting in greater and additional other-than-temporary impairments. Increased losses have also occurred due to the volatility in credit spreads. When credit spreads widen, we incur losses associated with the credit derivatives where the Company assumes exposure. When credit spreads tighten, we incur losses associated with derivatives where the Company has purchased credit protection. If credit spreads tighten significantly, the Company’s net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturities may be reduced. In addition, a reduction in market liquidity has made it difficult to value certain of our securities as trading has become less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may be more susceptible to significant period to period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition.  Our statutory surplus is also impacted by widening credit spreads as a result of the accounting for the assets and liabilities on our fixed market value adjusted (“MVA”) annuities. Statutory separate account assets supporting the fixed MVA annuities are recorded at fair value. In determining the statutory reserve for the fixed MVA annuities we are required to use current crediting rates in the U.S. and Japanese LIBOR in Japan. In many capital market scenarios, current crediting rates in the U.S. are highly correlated with market rates implicit in the fair value of statutory separate account assets. As a result, the change in the statutory reserve from period to period will likely substantially offset the change in the fair value of the statutory separate account assets. However, in periods of volatile credit markets, such as we are now experiencing, actual credit spreads on investment assets may increase sharply for certain sub-sectors of the overall credit market, resulting in statutory separate account asset market value losses. As actual credit spreads are not fully reflected in current crediting rates in the U.S. or Japanese LIBOR in Japan, the calculation of statutory reserves will not substantially offset the change in fair value of the statutory separate account assets resulting in reductions in statutory surplus. This has resulted and may continue to result in the need to devote significant additional capital to support the product.   164    Table of Contents  Our primary foreign currency exchange risks are related to net income from foreign operations, non — U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries, our yen-denominated individual fixed annuity product, and certain guaranteed benefits associated with the Japan and U.K. variable annuities. These risks relate to potential decreases in value and income resulting from a strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar. In general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will unfavorably affect net income from foreign operations, the value of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and realized gains or losses on the yen denominated individual fixed annuity product. In comparison, a strengthening of the Japanese yen or British pound in comparison to the U.S. dollar and other currencies will increase our exposure to the guarantee benefits associated with the Japan or U.K. variable annuities. Correspondingly, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to other currencies will increase our exposure to the U.S. variable annuity guarantee benefits where policyholders have elected to invest in international funds.  Our real estate market exposure includes investments in CMBS, RMBS, CRE CDOs, mortgage and real estate partnerships, and mortgage loans. Deterioration in the global real estate market, as evidenced by increases in property vacancy rates, delinquencies and foreclosures, has negatively impacted property values and sources of refinancing which could result in further reductions in net investment income associated with real estate partnerships, impairments of real estate backed securities and increases in our valuation allowance for mortgage loans.  If significant, further declines in equity prices, changes in U.S. interest rates, changes in credit spreads, the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, and global real estate market deterioration, individually or in combination, could continue to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and liquidity both directly and indirectly by creating competitive and other pressures such as employee retention issues and the potential loss of distributors for our products.  In addition, in the conduct of our business, there could be scenarios where in order to reduce risks, fulfill our obligations or to raise incremental liquidity, we would sell assets at a loss for a variety of reasons including the unrealized loss position in our overall investment portfolio and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. These scenarios could include selling assets as the Company reduces its securities lending program.  Declines in equity markets, changes in interest rates and credit spreads and global real estate market deterioration can also negatively impact the fair values of each of our segments. If a significant decline in the fair value of a segment occurred and this resulted in an excess of that segment’s book value over fair value, the goodwill assigned to that segment might be impaired and could cause the Company to record a charge to impair a part or all of the related goodwill assets.     Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS