Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  The risk factors set forth below update the risk factors section previously disclosed in Item 1A of Part I of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.  Persistent stress in financial markets and recessionary global economic conditions have continued to adversely affect our business and results.  Persistent stress in financial markets and recessionary global economic conditions have continued to adversely affect our operations and results in the first quarter of 2009, and the impact and potential effects of governmental stimulus, budgetary and other financial measures in the world’s major economies remain uncertain. Although there was no material net change in our capital position at March 31, 2009 compared with the end of 2008, our capital position is likely to remain under pressure if the recessionary economic environment is prolonged. In addition, our long-term debt and financial strength ratings were downgraded by the major rating agencies in the first quarter of 2009, in most cases with a negative outlook. Certain of our Life and Property-Casualty lines of business have been particularly adversely affected by these conditions.  In light of these factors, we have been undertaking a wide-ranging review of initiatives to stabilize our ratings and to mitigate and reduce risks associated with various business lines (including product and pricing changes) and our investment portfolio. We have also been reviewing a number of strategic alternatives that could reduce risk and help stabilize ratings by improving the Company’s capital position, including the restructuring, discontinuation or disposition of various business lines. In this regard, we are suspending all new sales in our Japan and European operations, and we are evaluating strategic options with respect to our Institutional markets businesses. Another potential source of capital that could help stabilize ratings is the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) administered by the U.S. Treasury Department. Our application to participate in the CPP remains pending, and we cannot predict whether, when or in what amount our participation may be approved. Our actions to date and other initiatives we may undertake, including any participation in the CPP, may not be concluded successfully or on favorable terms and may not fully achieve the anticipated benefits. Any such actions or initiatives could also significantly change the structure of our operations and perceptions of our prospects and materially affect our results and financial position.     Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS