Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  Investing in The Hartford involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in The Hartford, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, any of which could have a significant or material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity of The Hartford. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by The Hartford with the SEC.  The risk factors set forth below update the risk factors section previously disclosed in Item 1A of Part I of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and in Item 1A of Part II of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010.  Our operating environment remains challenging in light of uncertainty about the timing and strength of an economic recovery and the impact of governmental budgetary and regulatory initiatives. The steps we have taken to realign our businesses and strengthen our capital position may not be adequate to mitigate the financial, competitive and other risks associated with our operating environment, particularly if economic conditions deteriorate from their current levels or regulatory requirements change significantly, and we may be required to or we may seek to raise additional capital or take other strategic or financial actions that could adversely affect our business and results or trading prices for our capital stock.  Persistent volatility in financial markets and uncertainty about the timing and strength of a recovery in the global economy adversely affected our business and results in 2009, and these conditions have continued to affect our operating environment in 2010. High unemployment, lower family income, lower business investment and lower consumer spending in most geographic markets we serve have adversely affected the demand for financial and insurance products, as well as their profitability in some cases. Our results, financial condition and statutory capital remain sensitive to equity and credit market performance, and we expect that market volatility will continue to pressure returns in our life and property and casualty investment portfolios and that our hedging costs will remain high. Until economic conditions become more stable and improve, we also expect to experience realized and unrealized investment losses, particularly in the commercial real estate sector where significant market illiquidity and risk premiums exist that reflect the current uncertainty in the real estate market. Lower interest rates are also likely to continue to adversely impact our fixed annuity sales and the cost and effectiveness of our GMWB hedging program. Deterioration or negative rating agency actions with respect to our investments could also indirectly adversely affect our statutory capital and risk-based capital (“RBC”) ratios, which could in turn have other negative consequences for our business and results.  The steps we have taken to realign our businesses and strengthen our capital position may not be adequate if economic conditions do not stabilize in line with our forecasts or if they experience a significant deterioration. These steps include ongoing initiatives, particularly the execution risk relating to the repositioning of our investment portfolios. In addition, we modified our variable annuity product offerings and, in October 2009, launched a new variable annuity product. However, the future success of this new variable annuity product will be dependent on market acceptance. The level of market acceptance of this new product will directly affect the level of variable annuity sales of the Company in the future. In addition, as the Company and our distribution partners transition to the new product, there will be downward pressure on new deposits, and management expects to continue to be in a net outflow position through 2010. If our actions are not adequate, our ability to support the scale of our business and to absorb operating losses and liabilities under our customer contracts could be impaired, which would in turn adversely affect our overall competitiveness. We could be required to raise additional capital or consider other actions to manage our capital position and liquidity or further reduce our exposure to market and financial risks. We may also be forced to sell assets on unfavorable terms that could cause us to incur charges or lose the potential for market upside on those assets in a market recovery. We could also face other pressures, such as employee recruitment and retention issues and potential loss of distributors for our products. Finally, trading prices for our common stock could decline as a result or in anticipation of sales of our common stock or equity-linked instruments.  Even if the measures we have taken (or take in the future) are effective to mitigate the risks associated with our current operating environment, they may have unintended consequences. For example, rebalancing our hedging program may better protect our statutory surplus, but also result in greater U.S. GAAP earnings volatility. Actions we take may also entail impairment or other charges or adversely affect our ability to compete successfully in an increasingly difficult consumer market.  Regulatory developments relating to the recent financial crisis may also significantly affect our operations and prospects in ways that we cannot predict. U.S. and overseas governmental and regulatory authorities, including the SEC, the OTS, The Federal Reserve, the OCC, the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority are considering enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or otherwise stabilize the institutions under their supervision. Such measures are likely to lead to stricter regulation of financial institutions generally, and heightened prudential requirements for systemically important companies in particular. Such measures could include taxation of financial transactions, liabilities and employee compensation.   134    Table of Contents  The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was enacted into law on July 21, 2010, and will introduce sweeping changes to the regulation of the financial services industry. Most of these will not become effective immediately, and many will require further regulatory action before they become effective. Nonetheless, we anticipate that the Dodd-Frank Act may affect our operations and governance in ways that could significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations.  In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act vests a newly created Financial Services Oversight Council with the power to designate “systemically important” institutions, which will be subject to special regulatory supervision and other provisions intended to prevent, or mitigate the impact of, future disruptions in the U.S. financial system. If we are designated as a systemically important institution, we will be subject to heightened prudential standards imposed by The Federal Reserve, as well as to post-event assessments imposed by the FDIC to recoup the costs associated with the orderly resolution of systemically important institutions in the event one or more such institutions fails. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new resolution authority for systemically important institutions. Although insurance companies will not be subject to the special liquidation procedures in the Dodd-Frank Act, it contains back-up authority for the FDIC to force insurance companies into liquidation under state law if their state regulators fail to act. Other provisions will require central clearing of, and/or impose new margin and capital requirements on, derivatives transactions, which we expect will increase the costs of our hedging program.  A number of provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act affect us solely due to our status as a savings & loan holding company. For example, under the Dodd-Frank Act, the OTS will be dissolved. The Federal Reserve will assume regulatory authority over our holding company, and our thrift subsidiary, Federal Trust Bank, will be regulated by the OCC. The Dodd-Frank Act may also restrict us as a savings and loan holding company or systemically important institution from sponsoring and investing in private equity and hedge funds, which will limit our discretion in managing our general account. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act prohibits proprietary trading by any entity in our holding company structure that is not a licensed insurance company. The Dodd-Frank Act will also impose new minimum capital standards on a consolidated basis for holding companies that, like us, control insured depository institutions.  Other changes in the Dodd-Frank Act include: the possibility that regulators could break up firms that are considered “too big to fail” or mandate certain barriers between their activities in order to allow for the orderly resolution of failing financial institutions; a new “Federal Insurance Office” within Treasury to, among other things, conduct a study of how to improve insurance regulation in the United States; new means for regulators to limit the activities of financial firms; discretionary authority for the SEC to impose a harmonized standard of care for investment advisers and broker-dealers who provide personalized advice about securities to retail customers; additional regulation of compensation in the financial services industry; and enhancements to corporate governance, especially regarding risk management.  Given the significance of the changes and the additional regulatory action required for many of the new provisions, we cannot predict all of the ways or the degree to which our business, financial condition and results of operations may be affected by the Dodd-Frank Act, once it is fully implemented.  Although we repurchased our Series E Preferred Stock issued to Treasury in the CPP, we remain subject to certain restrictions, oversight and costs relating to our receipt of federal assistance and our status as a savings and loan holding company that could materially affect our business, results and prospects.  Although we repurchased our Series E Preferred Stock issued to Treasury in the CPP, provisions of our agreement with Treasury relating to the CPP will remain in effect for so long as Treasury continues to hold the warrant or shares of our common stock received upon exercising the warrant, and we will continue to be a savings and loan holding company by virtue of our ownership of Federal Trust Bank (“FTB”), a federally chartered, FDIC-insured thrift, the acquisition of which was a condition to our participation in the CPP. We will therefore remain subject to various restrictions, oversight and costs and other potential consequences that could materially affect our business, results and prospects, including the following:     •   As a savings and loan holding company, we are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, including with respect to required capital, cash flow, organizational structure, risk management and earnings at the parent company level, and to the OTS reporting requirements. All of our activities must be financially-related activities as defined by federal law (which includes insurance activities), and the OTS has enforcement authority over us, including the right to pursue administrative orders or penalties and the right to restrict or prohibit activities determined by the OTS to be a serious risk to FTB. We must also be a source of strength to FTB, which could require further capital contributions. We will be subject to similar, potentially stricter, requirements when regulatory authority over us transfers to The Federal Reserve (for our holding company) and the OCC (for FTB).       •   We believe that the limitations on the amount and form of bonus, retention and other incentive compensation that we may pay to executive officers and senior management do not apply to us with respect to services rendered from and after the date we repurchased all of the Series E Preferred Stock. Nevertheless, recipients of federal assistance continue to be subject to intense scrutiny, and future regulatory initiatives could be adopted at the federal or state level that have the effect of constraining the business or management of those enterprises. The Obama administration has proposed a financial crisis responsibility tax that would be levied on the largest financial institutions in terms of assets. We cannot predict the scope or impact of future regulatory initiatives or the effect that they may have on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, the cost and complexity of our compliance programs or on required levels of regulatory capital.       •   Future federal statutes may adversely affect the terms of the CPP that remain applicable to us, and Treasury may amend the terms of our agreement unilaterally if required by future statutes, including in a manner materially adverse to us.     135    Table of Contents     Our ability to declare and pay dividends is subject to limitations.  The payment of future dividends on our capital stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors, which considers, among other factors our operating results, overall financial condition, credit-risk considerations and capital requirements, as well as general business and market conditions.  Moreover, as a holding company that is separate and distinct from our insurance subsidiaries, we have no significant business operations of our own. Therefore, we rely on dividends from our insurance company subsidiaries and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash flow to meet our obligations. These obligations include payments on our debt securities and the payment of dividends on our capital stock. The Connecticut insurance holding company laws limit the payment of dividends by Connecticut-domiciled insurers. In addition, these laws require notice to and approval by the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment by those subsidiaries of any dividend if the dividend and other dividends or distributions made within the preceding 12 months exceeds the greater of:     •   10% of the insurer’s policyholder surplus as of December 31 of the preceding year, and       •   net income, or net gain from operations if the subsidiary is a life insurance company, for the previous calendar year, in each case determined under statutory insurance accounting principles.    In addition, if any dividend of a Connecticut-domiciled insurer exceeds the insurer’s earned surplus, it requires the prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Commissioner.  The insurance holding company laws of the other jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are incorporated, or deemed commercially domiciled, generally contain similar, and in some instances more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. Our property-casualty insurance subsidiaries are permitted to pay up to a maximum of approximately $1.4 billion in dividends to us in 2010 without prior approval from the applicable insurance commissioner. Statutory dividends from our life insurance subsidiaries in 2010 require prior approval from the applicable insurance commissioner. The aggregate of these amounts, net of amounts required by our subsidiary Hartford Life, Inc., or HLI, is the maximum our insurance subsidiaries could pay to us in 2010. In 2009, we and HLI received $700 in dividends from our life insurance subsidiaries representing the movement of a life subsidiary to us, and we received $251 in dividends from our property-casualty insurance subsidiaries. For the six months ended June 30, 2010, neither we nor HLI received dividends from the life insurance subsidiaries. For the six months ended June 30, 2010, we received $626 in dividends from our property-casualty insurance subsidiaries.  Our rights to participate in any distribution of the assets of any of our subsidiaries, for example, upon their liquidation or reorganization, and the ability of holders of our common stock to benefit indirectly from a distribution, are subject to the prior claims of creditors of the applicable subsidiary, except to the extent that we may be a creditor of that subsidiary. Claims on these subsidiaries by persons other than us include, as of June 30, 2010, claims by policyholders for benefits payable amounting to $116.6 billion, claims by separate account holders of $154.9 billion, and other liabilities including claims of trade creditors, claims from guaranty associations and claims from holders of debt obligations, amounting to $16.3 billion.  In addition, as a savings and loan holding company, we are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, including with respect to required capital, cash flow, organization structure, risk management and earnings at the parent company level. We will be subject to similar, potentially stricter, requirements when regulatory authority over us transfers to The Federal Reserve (for our holding company) and the OCC (for FTB).  Holders of our capital stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Moreover, our common stockholders are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of our preferred stock or depositary shares representing such preferred stock then outstanding. As of June 30, 2010, there were 575,000 shares of our Series F Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. Under the terms of the Series F Preferred Stock, our ability to declare and pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock will be subject to restrictions in the event we fail to declare and pay (or set aside for payment) full dividends on the Series F Preferred Stock.  The terms of our outstanding junior subordinated debt securities also prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on our capital stock or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if we have given notice of our election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing.   136    Table of Contents  We are particularly vulnerable to losses from catastrophes, both natural and man-made, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  We are particularly vulnerable to losses from catastrophes, both natural and man-made. Depending on their incidence and severity, these losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  Natural catastrophes can be caused by various unpredictable events, including earthquakes, hurricanes, hailstorms, severe winter weather, fires, tornadoes, and disease pandemics. The geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposure for natural events occurring in a number of areas, including, but not limited to, hurricanes in Florida, the Gulf Coast, the Northeast and the Atlantic coast regions of the United States, and earthquakes in California and the New Madrid region of the United States. We expect that increases in the values and concentrations of insured property in these areas will continue to increase the severity of catastrophic events in the future. Starting in 2004 and 2005, third-party catastrophe loss models for hurricane loss events have incorporated medium-term forecasts of increased hurricane frequency and severity — reflecting the potential influence of multi-decadal climate patterns within the Atlantic. In addition, changing climate conditions across longer time scales, including the potential risk of broader climate change, may be increasing, or may in the future increase, the frequency and severity of certain natural catastrophe losses across various geographic regions. In addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may be increasing, or may in the future increase, the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes. Potential examples of the impact of climate change on catastrophe exposure include, but are not limited to the following: an increase in the frequency or severity of wind and thunderstorm and tornado/hailstorm events due to increased convection in the atmosphere, more frequent brush fires in certain geographies due to prolonged periods of drought, higher incidence of deluge flooding, and the potential for an increase in severity of the largest hurricane events due to higher sea surface temperatures. Our life insurance operations are also exposed to risk of loss from catastrophes. For example, natural or man-made disasters or a disease pandemic such as could arise from avian flu, could significantly increase our mortality and morbidity experience. Policyholders may be unable to meet their obligations to pay premiums on our insurance policies or make deposits on our investment products.   We are also exposed to losses resulting from man-made disaster, including explosion, acts of terrorism and political instability. For example, in April 2010, the drilling rig Deepwater Horizon caught fire and sank, resulting in a massive oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. We believe that under the terms of our insurance policies, we do not have material exposure to damage resulting directly from the Deepwater Horizon spill. However, we could experience significant indirect losses if the presence of oil exacerbates otherwise covered losses in a manner that satisfies all the terms and conditions of coverage and we are unable to recoup the cost of oil-related damage from the parties responsible for the spill.  Our liquidity could be constrained by a catastrophe, or multiple catastrophes, which could result in extraordinary losses. In addition, in part because accounting rules do not permit insurers to reserve for such catastrophic events until they occur, claims from catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, consolidated results of operations and cash flows. To the extent that loss experience unfolds or models improve, we will seek to reflect any increased risk in the design and pricing of our products. However, the Company may be exposed to regulatory or legislative actions that prevent a full accounting of loss expectations in the design or price of our products or result in additional risk-shifting to the insurance industry.     Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS