Item 1A. RISK FACTORSInvesting in The Hartford involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in The Hartford, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, any of which could have a significant or material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity of The Hartford. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by The Hartford with the SEC.The risk factors set forth below update the risk factors section previously disclosed in Item 1A of Part I of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and in Item 1A of Part II of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.If we are unable to maintain the availability of our systems and safeguard the security of our data due to the occurrence of disasters or a cyber or other information security incident, our ability to conduct business may be compromised, we may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We use computer systems to process, store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer and company data and information. Our computer, information technology and telecommunications systems, in turn, interface with and rely upon third-party systems. Our business is highly dependent on our ability, and the ability of certain third parties, to access these systems to perform necessary business functions, including, without limitation, conducting our financial reporting and analysis, providing insurance quotes, processing premium payments, making changes to existing policies, filing and paying claims, administering variable annuity products and mutual funds, providing customer support and managing our investment portfolios and hedging programs. Systems failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform our business functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business and hurt our relationships with our business partners and customers. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, a pandemic, an industrial accident, a blackout, a terrorist attack or war, systems upon which we rely may be inaccessible to our employees, customers or business partners for an extended period of time. Even if our employees and business partners are able to report to work, they may be unable to perform their duties for an extended period of time if our data or systems used to conduct our business are disabled or destroyed. Moreover, our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer related penetrations. While, to date, The Hartford has not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity, administrative and technical controls as well as other preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. Such an event could compromise our confidential information as well as that of our clients and third parties with whom we interact, impede or interrupt our business operations and may result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, loss of revenue, additional regulatory scrutiny and litigation and reputational damage. In addition, we routinely transmit, receive and store personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. Although we attempt to keep such information confidential, we may be unable to utilize such capabilities in all events, especially with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties who may not have or use appropriate controls to protect confidential information. Furthermore, certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments, the European Union, Japan or other jurisdictions or enacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees or others. A misuse or mishandling of confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from an employee or third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. Third parties to whom we outsource certain of our functions are also subject to the risks outlined above, any one of which may result in our incurring substantial costs and other negative consequences, including a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. While we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides both third party liability and first party insurance coverages, our insurance may not be sufficient to protect against all loss. 138Table of ContentsItem 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS