Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  Investing in The Hartford involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in The Hartford, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, any of which could have a significant or material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity of The Hartford. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by The Hartford with the SEC.  The risk factors set forth below update the risk factors section previously disclosed in Item 1A of Part I of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.  The actions announced by the Company on March 21, 2012, and related implementation plans and objectives, involve a number of challenges, uncertainties and risks that may prevent the Company from implementing any such action or initiative as currently contemplated or at all, or, if concluded, from achieving some or all of the anticipated benefits from such announced actions.  On March 21, 2012, the Company announced its decision to focus on its Property and Casualty, Group Benefits and Mutual Fund businesses, place its Individual Annuity business into runoff and pursue sales or other strategic alternatives for the Individual Life, Woodbury Financial Services and Retirement Plans businesses. On April 26, 2012, the Company announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell its individual annuity new business capabilities to a third party and, effective May 1, 2012, reinsure all new annuity policies issued by the Company to such third party for a limited period of time. The actions announced by the Company are subject to challenges, uncertainties and risks, including, among others, that the Company may be unable to sell the Individual Life, Woodbury Financial Services and Retirement Plans businesses at an appropriate price or at all or find strategic alternatives to their sale. No assurance can be given that the carrying value of any such business may not be impaired at some future time. All these announced actions may be subject to significant execution risks, costs and delays, and estimated charges may be subject, depending on subsequent events, to upward adjustments. The Company may not achieve all of the benefits it expects to derive from the actions announced, including in respect of enhanced shareholder value.  The Company’s announcement and related implementation plans and objectives could also adversely affect not only the businesses with respect to which the Company has announced its intention to sell or execute other strategic alternatives, but also on its ongoing businesses. These adverse effects may include loss of customers, surrenders, withdrawals, contract terminations or other adverse impacts on the Company’s relationships with its business partners and other stakeholders. Further, the Company may not be able to retain employees that are necessary to the success of its implementation plans and objectives. As a consequence, the matters described above may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  Downgrades in our financial strength or credit ratings, which may make our products less attractive, could increase our cost of capital and inhibit our ability to refinance our debt, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  Financial strength and credit ratings, including commercial paper ratings, are important in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Rating agencies assign ratings based upon several factors. While most of the factors relate to the rated company, some of the factors relate to the views of the rating agency, general economic conditions, and circumstances outside the rated company’s control. In addition, rating agencies may employ different models and formulas to assess the financial strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies have, at their discretion, altered these models. Changes to the models, general economic conditions, or circumstances outside our control could impact a rating agency’s judgment of its rating and the rating it assigns us. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which may adversely affect us.  Our financial strength ratings, which are intended to measure our ability to meet policyholder obligations, are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of our products and, as a result, our competitiveness. A downgrade or a potential downgrade in the rating of our financial strength or of one of our principal insurance subsidiaries could affect our competitive position and reduce future sales of our products.  Our credit ratings also affect our cost of capital. A downgrade or a potential downgrade of our credit ratings could make it more difficult or costly to refinance maturing debt obligations, to support business growth at our insurance subsidiaries and to maintain or improve the financial strength ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries. Downgrades could begin to trigger potentially material collateral calls on certain of our derivative instruments and counterparty rights to terminate derivative relationships, both of which could limit our ability to purchase additional derivative instruments. These events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  On March 21, 2012, Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC downgraded Hartford Life Insurance Company and Hartford Life and Accident Insurance Company one notch to A- (stable outlook) and Hartford Life and Annuity Insurance Company two notches to BBB+ (negative outlook). In addition, Moody’s Investors Services, Inc. changed the outlook on Hartford Life and Annuity Insurance Company to negative and A.M. Best placed the Company’s life subsidiaries under review with negative implications. These ratings actions triggered counterparty termination and collateral call rights in a limited number of the Company’s derivative agreements. To date, no counterparties have terminated derivative relationships and we do not anticipate any material collateral calls as a result of these ratings actions.    115    Table of Contents The impact of regulatory initiatives, including the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  Regulatory developments relating to the recent financial crisis may significantly affect our operations and prospects in ways that we cannot predict. U.S. and overseas governmental and regulatory authorities, including the SEC, The Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), the NYSE and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”) are considering enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or otherwise stabilize the institutions under their supervision. Such measures are likely to lead to stricter regulation of financial institutions generally, and heightened prudential requirements for systemically important companies in particular. Such measures could include taxation of financial transactions and restrictions on employee compensation.  The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted on July 21, 2010, mandating changes to the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act may affect our operations and governance in ways that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will require central clearing of, and/or impose new margin and capital requirements on, derivatives transactions, which we expect will increase the costs of our hedging program. Other provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that may impact us include: a new “Federal Insurance Office” within Treasury; discretionary authority for the SEC to impose a harmonized standard of care for investment advisers and broker-dealers who provide personalized advice about securities to retail customers; possible adverse impact on the pricing and liquidity of the securities in which we invest resulting from the proprietary trading and market making limitation of the Volcker Rule; possible prohibition of certain asset-backed securities transactions that could adversely impact our ability to offer insurance-linked securities; and enhancements to corporate governance, especially regarding risk management.  In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act vests a newly created Financial Services Oversight Council (“FSOC”) with the power to designate “systemically important” institutions, which will be subject to special regulatory supervision and other provisions intended to prevent, or mitigate the impact of, future disruptions in the U.S. financial system. Systemically important institutions are limited to large bank holding companies and nonbank financial companies that are so important that their potential failure could “pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.” The FSOC published a final rule setting forth the process they propose to follow when designating systemically important nonbank financial companies in April 2012, but has not yet indicated when the FSOC will begin designating systemically important nonbank financial companies. Based on its most current financial data, The Hartford does not meet the initial quantitative metrics that will be used to determine which nonbank companies merit consideration. The FSOC has indicted it will review on a quarterly basis whether nonbank financial institutions meet the metrics for further review.  If we are designated as a systemically important institution, we could be subject to higher capital requirements and additional regulatory oversight imposed by The Federal Reserve, as well as to post-event assessments imposed by the FDIC to recoup the costs associated with the orderly liquidation of other systemically important institutions in the event one or more such institutions fails. Further, the FDIC is authorized to petition a state court to commence an insolvency proceeding to liquidate an insurance company that fails in the event the insurer’s state regulator fails to act. We may also be restricted from sponsoring and investing in private equity and hedge funds, which would limit our discretion in managing our general account. The Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule in December 2011 that would apply capital and liquidity requirements, single-counterparty credit limits, and stress testing and risk management requirements to systemically important institutions, and subject such institutions to an early remediation regime based on these requirements. The Federal Reserve has noted that they may tailor the application of the proposed rule to the particular attributes of systemically important nonbank financial companies. If The Hartford were to be designated as systemically important by the FSOC, these requirements could apply to The Hartford. However, it is not yet clear how or to what extent these requirements would be applied to systemically important nonbank financial companies.  Potential changes in federal or state tax laws, including changes impacting the availability of the separate account dividend received deduction, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  Many of the products that the Company currently sells benefit from one or more forms of tax-favored status under current federal and state income tax regimes. For example, the Company sells life insurance policies that benefit from the deferral or elimination of taxation on earnings accrued under the policy, as well as permanent exclusion of certain death benefits that may be paid to policyholders’ beneficiaries. We also sold annuity contracts that allowed policyholders to defer the recognition of taxable income earned within the contract. Other products that the Company sells or previously sold also enjoy similar, as well as other, types of tax advantages. The Company also benefits from certain tax items, including but not limited to, tax-exempt bond interest, dividends received deductions, tax credits (such as foreign tax credits), and insurance reserve deductions.  Due in large part to the recent financial crisis that has affected many governments, there is an increasing risk that federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted that would result in higher taxes on insurance companies and/or their policyholders. For example, on February 13, 2012, the Obama Administration released its “FY 2013, Budget of the United States Government” that includes among many other proposals, a proposal which, if enacted, would adversely affect the amount of the dividends received deduction the Company currently enjoys. Although the specific form of any such potential legislation is uncertain, it could include lessening or eliminating some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company and/or its policyholders, not “grandfathering” the current tax treatment of existing life and annuity products, etc. This could occur in the context of deficit reduction or other tax reform. The effects of any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition, and could result in lapses of policies currently held, and/or our incurrence of materially higher corporate taxes.    116    Table of Contents Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS