Item 1A. RISK FACTORSInvesting in The Hartford involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in The Hartford, you should carefully consider the risk factors disclosed in Item 1A of Part I of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, any of which could have a significant or material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity of The Hartford. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by The Hartford with the SEC.Changes in federal or state tax laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.Changes in federal or state tax laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. For instance, the steps taken by the federal government to avoid automatic tax increases and spending cuts that would have gone into effect on January 1, 2013 will result in higher tax rates, including for many small business owners who are already preparing for increased costs associated with healthcare reform. This may cause small businesses to hire fewer workers and decrease investment in their businesses, including purchasing vehicles, property and equipment, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Conversely, if income tax rates decline it could adversely affect the Company's ability to realize the benefits of its deferred tax assets.Many of the products that the Company previously sold benefit from one or more forms of tax-favored status under current federal and state income tax regimes. For example, the Company previously sold individual life insurance policies that benefit from the deferral or elimination of taxation on earnings accrued under the policy, as well as permanent exclusion of certain death benefits that may be paid to policyholders' beneficiaries. We also sold annuity contracts that allowed policyholders to defer the recognition of taxable income earned within the contract. The Company also benefits from certain tax items, including but not limited to, tax-exempt bond interest, dividends received deductions, tax credits (such as foreign tax credits), and insurance reserve deductions. Because the Company no longer sells individual life insurance, changes in the future taxation of life insurance and/or annuity contracts will not adversely impact future sales. If, however, the treatment of earnings accrued inside a life or annuity contract was changed prospectively, and the taxation of current contracts was grandfathered, it would make running off our existing annuity business more difficult. Furthermore, changes to the taxation of tax exempt bonds could limit our investment choices and depress portfolio yields. Lastly, there could be changes in the taxation of reserving methodologies for P&C companies that could increase our taxes. Due in large part to the recent financial crisis that has affected many governments, there is an increasing risk that federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted that would result in higher taxes on insurance companies and/or their policyholders. For example, the Obama Administration proposed federal budget released in April 2013 entitled Fiscal Year 2014, Budget of the U.S. Government included among many other proposals, a proposal which, if enacted, would adversely affect the amount of the dividends received deduction the Company currently enjoys. If this proposal were enacted, the Company's actual tax expense could increase, reducing earnings. Although the specific form of any related legislation is uncertain, any such legislation could include provisions that lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company, its investments and investment strategies, and/or its policyholders or not provide for grandfathering the current tax treatment of existing life and annuity products. This could occur in the context of deficit reduction or other tax reform. The effects of any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition, and could result in lapses of policies currently held, and/or our incurrence of materially higher corporate taxes.131Table of ContentsItem 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS