Item 1A. RISK FACTORSInvesting in The Hartford involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in The Hartford, you should carefully consider the risk factors disclosed below and in Item 1A of Part I of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, any of which could have a significant or material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity of The Hartford. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by The Hartford with the SEC. The changes to the risk factors noted below are principally due to the Company’s sale of all of the issued and outstanding equity of Hartford Life Insurance KK on June 30, 2014 and updates to the Company’s capital management plan.Risks Relating to Economic, Market and Political Conditions Unfavorable conditions in our operating environment, including general economic and global capital market conditions, and financial and capital markets risks, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, market volatility, foreign exchange rates and real estate market deterioration, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Despite the rise in U.S. equity markets in 2013 and 2014, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the timing and strength of an economic recovery, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Weak economic conditions, such as continued high unemployment, low labor force participation, lower family income, higher tax rates, including on small business owners, lower business investment and lower consumer spending have adversely affected or may in the future adversely affect the demand for financial and insurance products, as well as their profitability in some cases. These weak economic conditions are also likely to result in the persistence of a sustained low interest rate environment as well as volatility in other capital market conditions, which will continue to pressure our investment results.One important exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with our operations in Mutual Funds and Talcott Resolution, such as U.S. variable annuities, where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the assets under management. Should equity markets decline from current levels, assets under management and related fee income will be reduced. Certain of our products have guaranteed benefits that increase our potential obligation and statutory capital exposure should equity markets decline. Sustained declines in equity markets may result in the need to utilize significant additional capital to support these products and adversely affect our ability to support our other businesses.While interest rates in recent periods continue to be near historically low levels, recent increases in market rates have marginally reduced our reinvestment risk. However, further reductions in market rates or a sustained low interest rate environment would pressure our net investment income and could result in lower margins and lower estimated gross profits on certain products. In addition, due to the long-term nature of the liabilities within our Talcott Resolution operations, such as structured settlements and guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, sustained declines in long-term interest rates subjects us to reinvestment risks, increased hedging costs, spread compression and capital volatility. A rise in interest rates, in the absence of other countervailing changes, will reduce the market value of our investment portfolio and, if long-term interest rates were to rise dramatically within a six-to-twelve month time period, certain products within our Talcott Resolution division might be exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate in an unrealized loss position. An increase in interest rates can also impact our tax planning strategies and in particular our ability to utilize tax benefits to offset certain previously recognized realized capital losses. Assets supporting the liabilities within our property & casualty and group benefits businesses are largely invested in fixed income securities. Changes in interest rates will affect the value of these assets and expose the company to reinvestment risk and disintermediation risk if cash flows differ materially from our projections. Additionally, new and renewal business for these products is priced based on prevailing interest rates. As interest rates decline, pricing targets will increase to offset the lower anticipated investment income earned on invested premiums. Conversely, as interest rates rise, pricing targets will decrease to reflect higher anticipated investment income. Such changes in pricing may affect our competitiveness in the marketplace, and in turn, written premium and earnings margin achieved. Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. If issuer credit spreads widen significantly and retain historically wide levels over an extended period of time, other-than-temporary impairments and decreases in the market value of our investment portfolio will likely result. In addition, losses may also occur due to the volatility in credit spreads. When credit spreads widen, we incur losses associated with the credit derivatives where the Company assumes exposure. When credit spreads tighten, we incur losses associated with derivatives where the Company has purchased credit protection. If credit spreads tighten significantly, the Company's net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturities may be reduced. In addition, a reduction in market liquidity can make it difficult to value certain of our securities when trading becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may be more susceptible to significant period-to-period changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.145Our statutory surplus is also affected by widening credit spreads as a result of the accounting for the assets and liabilities on our fixed market value adjusted (“MVA”) annuities. Statutory separate account assets supporting the fixed MVA annuities are recorded at fair value. In determining the statutory reserve for the fixed MVA annuities we are required to use current crediting rates in the U.S.. In many capital market scenarios, current crediting rates in the U.S. are highly correlated with market rates implicit in the fair value of statutory separate account assets. As a result, the change in the statutory reserve from period to period will likely substantially offset the change in the fair value of the statutory separate account assets. However, in periods of volatile credit markets, actual credit spreads on investment assets may increase sharply for certain sub-sectors of the overall credit market, resulting in statutory separate account asset market value losses. As actual credit spreads are not fully reflected in current crediting rates in the U.S., the calculation of statutory reserves will not substantially offset the change in fair value of the statutory separate account assets resulting in reductions in statutory surplus. This has resulted in the past and may result in the future in the need to devote significant additional capital to support the fixed MVA product.Our real estate market exposure includes investments in commercial mortgage-backed securities, residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations, mortgage and real estate partnerships, and mortgage loans. Deterioration in the real estate market has adversely affected our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity in the past. While the real estate market has shown signs of improvement, deteriorating fundamentals (including increases in property vacancy rates, delinquencies and foreclosures) could cause a decline in market values, which would have a negative impact on sources of refinancing, resulting in reduced market liquidity and higher risk premiums. This could result in reductions in market value and impairments of real estate backed securities, a reduction in net investment income associated with real estate partnerships, and increases in our valuation allowance for mortgage loans.Significant declines in equity prices, changes in U.S. interest rates, changes in credit spreads, inflation, the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar or real estate market deterioration, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Our hedging assets seek to reduce the net economic sensitivity of our potential obligations from guaranteed benefits to equity market and interest rate fluctuations. Because of the accounting asymmetries between our economic targets and statutory and GAAP accounting, rising equity markets or rising interest rates may result in statutory or GAAP losses.Risks Relating to Estimates, Assumptions and ValuationsIf assumptions used in estimating future gross profits differ from actual experience, we may be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC and increase reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Company deferred acquisition costs associated with the prior sales of its variable annuity products. Deferred acquisition costs for the U.S. block are amortized over the expected life of the contracts. The remaining deferred but not yet amortized cost is referred to as the Deferred Acquisition Cost (“DAC”) asset. We amortize these costs in proportion to the present value of estimated gross profits (“EGPs”). The Company evaluates the EGPs compared to the DAC asset to determine if an impairment exists. The Company also establishes reserves for GMDB using components of EGPs. The projection of EGPs, or components of EGPs, requires the use of certain assumptions, principally related to separate account fund returns, surrender and lapse rates, interest margin (including impairments), mortality, benefit utilization, annuitization and hedging costs. Of these factors, we anticipate that changes in investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. However, other factors such as those the Company might employ to reduce risk, such as the cost of hedging or other risk mitigating techniques, as well as the effect of increased surrenders, could also significantly reduce estimates of future gross profits. Estimating future gross profits is a complex process requiring considerable judgment and the forecasting of events well into the future. If our assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, including lapse rates, benefit utilization, surrenders, and annuitization, hedging costs or costs to employ other risk mitigating techniques prove to be inaccurate or if significant or sustained equity market declines occur, we could be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC related to variable annuity contracts, and increase reserves for GMDB, which would result in a charge to net income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.146Financial Strength, Credit and Counterparty Risks  The amount of statutory capital that we have, and the amount of statutory capital that we must hold to maintain our financial strength and credit ratings and meet other requirements, can vary significantly from time to time and is sensitive to a number of factors outside of our control, including equity market, credit market and interest rate conditions, changes in policyholder behavior, changes in rating agency models, and changes in regulations. We conduct the vast majority of our business through licensed insurance company subsidiaries. Accounting standards and statutory capital and reserve requirements for these entities are prescribed by the applicable insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”). Insurance regulators have established regulations that provide minimum capitalization requirements based on risk-based capital (“RBC”) formulas for both life and property and casualty companies. The RBC formula for life companies establishes capital requirements relating to insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks, including equity, interest rate and expense recovery risks associated with variable annuities and group annuities that contain death benefits or certain living benefits. The RBC formula for property and casualty companies adjusts statutory surplus levels for certain underwriting, asset, credit and off-balance sheet risks.In any particular year, statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios may increase or decrease depending on a variety of factors, including the amount of statutory income or losses generated by our insurance subsidiaries (which itself is sensitive to equity market and credit market conditions), the amount of additional capital our insurance subsidiaries must hold to support business growth, changes in equity market levels, the value of certain fixed-income and equity securities in our investment portfolio, the value of certain derivative instruments, changes in interest rates, the impact of internal reinsurance arrangements, and changes to the NAIC RBC formulas. Most of these factors are outside of the Company's control. The Company's financial strength and credit ratings are significantly influenced by the statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios of our insurance company subsidiaries. In addition, rating agencies may implement changes to their internal models that have the effect of increasing the amount of statutory capital we must hold in order to maintain our current ratings. Also, in extreme scenarios of equity market declines and other capital market volatility, the amount of additional statutory reserves that we are required to hold for our variable annuity guarantees increases at a greater than linear rate. This reduces the statutory surplus used in calculating our RBC ratios. When equity markets increase, surplus levels and RBC ratios would generally be expected to increase. However, as a result of a number of factors and market conditions, including the level of hedging costs and other risk transfer activities, reserve requirements for death and living benefit guarantees and increases in RBC requirements, surplus and RBC ratios may not increase when equity markets increase. Due to these factors, projecting statutory capital and the related RBC ratios is complex. If our statutory capital resources are insufficient to maintain a particular rating by one or more rating agencies, we may seek to raise capital through public or private equity or debt financing. If we were not to raise additional capital, either at our discretion or because we were unable to do so, our financial strength and credit ratings might be downgraded by one or more rating agencies.Losses due to nonperformance or defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities mortgage loans or reinsurance and derivative instrument counterparties, could have a material adverse effect on the value of our investments, business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Issuers or borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud, government intervention or other reasons. Such defaults could have a material adverse effect on the value of our investments, business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, the underlying assets supporting our structured securities or loans may deteriorate causing these securities or loans to incur losses.Our investment portfolio includes securities backed by real estate assets, the value of which may be adversely impacted if conditions in the real estate market significantly deteriorate, including declines in property values and increases in vacancy rates, delinquencies and foreclosures, ultimately resulting in a reduction in expected future cash flows for certain securities. The Company also has exposure to foreign-based issuers of securities and providers of reinsurance. These foreign issuers include European issuers as well as certain emerging market issuers. Despite the recent stabilization in the European market, there are still fundamental structural issues that remain and may result in the re-emergence of fiscal and economic issues. In addition, there has been recent volatility within certain emerging market countries spurred by concerns over the U.S. Federal Reserve tapering its monetary stimulus, an economic slowdown in China, and the devaluation of certain currencies. Further details of the European and certain emerging market private and sovereign issuers held within the investment portfolio can be found in Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management - Investment Portfolio Risks and Risk Management in The Hartford’s 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company's European based reinsurance arrangements are further described in Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management - Investment Portfolio Risks and Risk Management in The Hartford’s 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Property value declines and loss rates that exceed our current estimates, as outlined in Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management - Other-Than-Temporary Impairments, or a worsening of global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.147To the extent the investment portfolio is not adequately diversified, concentrations of credit risk may exist which could negatively impact the Company if significant adverse events or developments occur in any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic regions. The Company’s investment portfolio is not exposed to any credit concentration risk of a single issuer greater than 10% of the Company's stockholders' equity other than U.S. government and U.S. government agencies backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. However, if issuers of securities or loans we hold are acquired, merge or otherwise consolidate with other issuers of securities or loans held by the Company, our investment portfolio’s credit concentration risk to issuers could increase above the 10% threshold, for a period of time, until the Company is able to sell securities to get back in compliance with the established investment credit policies. For discussion of the Company’s exposure to credit concentration risk of reinsurers, see the risk factor, “We may incur losses due to our reinsurers' unwillingness or inability to meet their obligations under reinsurance contracts and the availability, pricing and adequacy of reinsurance may not be sufficient to protect us against losses.”Our ability to declare and pay dividends is subject to limitations.  The payment of future dividends on our capital stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors, which considers, among other factors, our operating results, overall financial condition, credit-risk considerations and capital requirements, as well as general business and market conditions.Moreover, as a holding company that is separate and distinct from our insurance subsidiaries, we have no significant business operations of our own. Therefore, we rely on dividends from our insurance company subsidiaries and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash flow to meet our obligations. These obligations include payments on our debt securities and the payment of dividends on our capital stock. The Connecticut insurance holding company laws limit the payment of dividends by Connecticut-domiciled insurers and require notice to and approval by the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of dividends above certain levels. The insurance holding company laws of the other jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are incorporated, or deemed commercially domiciled, generally contain similar, and in some instances more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. Dividends paid to us by our insurance subsidiaries are further dependent on their cash requirements. For further discussion on dividends from insurance subsidiaries, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Capital Resources & Liquidity.Our rights to participate in any distribution of the assets of any of our subsidiaries, for example, upon their liquidation or reorganization, and the ability of holders of our common stock to benefit indirectly from a distribution, are subject to the prior claims of creditors of the applicable subsidiary, except to the extent that we may be a creditor of that subsidiary. Holders of our capital stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Moreover, our common stockholders are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of our preferred stock or depositary shares representing such preferred stock then outstanding. The terms of our outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on our capital stock or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if we have given notice of our election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing.Insurance and Product-Related Risks Our adjustment of our risk management program relating to products we offered with guaranteed benefits to emphasize protection of economic value will likely result in greater statutory and U.S. GAAP volatility in our earnings and potentially material charges to net income (loss). Some of the in-force business within our Talcott Resolution operations, especially variable annuities, offer guaranteed benefits which, in the event of a decline in equity markets, would not only result in lower earnings, but will also increase our exposure to liability for benefit claims. We are also subject to equity market volatility related to these benefits, including the GMWB and GMDB associated with in-force variable annuities. We use reinsurance structures and have modified benefit features to mitigate the exposure associated with GMDB. We also use reinsurance in combination with a modification of benefit features and derivative instruments to attempt to minimize the claim exposure and to reduce the volatility of net income associated with the GMWB liability. However, due to the severe economic conditions experienced in recent years, we adjusted our risk management program to place greater relative emphasis on the protection of economic value. This shift in relative emphasis has resulted in greater statutory and U.S. GAAP earnings volatility and, based upon the types of hedging instruments used, can result in potentially material charges to net income (loss) in periods of rising equity market pricing levels, higher interest rates and declines in volatility. While we believe that these actions have improved the efficiency of our risk management related to these benefits, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay and, in turn, may need additional capital to support in-force business. We are also subject to the risk that these management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed, which individually or collectively may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.148Regulatory and Legal Risks Potential changes in regulation may increase our business costs and required capital levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are complex, subject to change and often conflicting in their approach or intended outcomes. Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and can affect our strategy, as well as the demand for and profitability of the products we offer.State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our insurance businesses, and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled, licensed or authorized to conduct business. These regulatory regimes are generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than insurers, their shareholders and other investors. U.S. state laws grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things, licensing and authorization for lines of business, statutory capital and reserve requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer's business.In addition, future regulatory initiatives could be adopted at the federal or state level that could impact the profitability of our businesses. For example, the NAIC and state insurance regulators are continually reexamining existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to statutory accounting principles, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. The NAIC has undertaken a Solvency Modernization Initiative focused on updating the U.S. insurance solvency regulation framework, including capital requirements, governance and risk management, group supervision, accounting and financial reporting and reinsurance. Any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives, if adopted, may be more restrictive on our ability to conduct business than current regulatory requirements or may result in higher costs or increased statutory capital and reserve requirements.Further, because these laws and regulations are complex and sometimes inexact, there is also a risk that our business may not fully comply with a particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal, accounting, or reserving issue or that such regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation may change over time to our detriment, or expose us to different or additional regulatory risks. The application of these regulations and guidelines by insurers involves interpretations and judgments that may not be consistent with the opinion of state insurance departments. We cannot provide assurance that such differences of opinion will not result in regulatory, tax or other challenges to the actions we have taken to date. The result of those potential challenges could require us to increase levels of statutory capital and reserves or incur higher operating and/or tax costs.In addition, our international operations are subject to regulation in the relevant jurisdictions in which they operate which in many ways is similar to the state regulation outlined above, with similar related restrictions and obligations. Our asset management businesses are also subject to extensive regulation in the various jurisdictions where they operate. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets or investment advisory clients and generally grant supervisory authorities broad administrative powers. Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly, time consuming and personnel intensive, and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. See the risk factor, “The impact of regulatory initiatives, including the enactment of The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.”Other Operational Risks The success of the realignment of our businesses, our capital management plan, expense reduction initiatives and other actions, which may include acquisitions, divestitures or restructurings, are subject to material challenges, uncertainties and risks which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  The success of the realignment of our businesses and our capital management plan remain subject to material challenges, uncertainties and risks. We may not achieve all of the benefits we expect to derive from our plan to repurchase our equity and reduce our debt over the course of 2014 and 2015 and our decision to focus on our Property and Casualty, Group Benefits and Mutual Fund businesses, place our Individual Annuity business into runoff and sell the Individual Life, Retirement Plans, and Japan annuity businesses. Our capital management plan is subject to execution risks, including, among others, risks related to market fluctuations and investor interest and potential legal constraints that could delay execution at an otherwise optimal time. There can be no assurance that we will in fact complete our capital management plan over the planned time frame or at all. Further, while the Company continues to actively consider alternatives for reducing the size and risk of the U.S. variable annuity book, opportunities to do so may be limited and any initiatives pursued, which may include divestitures, may not achieve the anticipated benefits and may negatively impact our statutory capital, net income, core earnings or shareholders’ equity. Initiatives to reduce expenses so that our ongoing businesses remain or become cost efficient may not be successful and we may not be able to reduce Corporate and shared services expenses in the manner and on the schedule we currently anticipate. We may take further actions beyond the capital management plan and business realignment, which may include acquisitions, divestitures or restructurings that may involve additional uncertainties and risks that negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.149Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS