Item 1A.RISK FACTORSInvesting in The Hartford involves risk. The following should be read in conjunction with, and supplements and amends, the factors that may affect the Company’s business or operations described under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K ("2015 Annual Report). Other than as described in this Item 1A, there have been no other material changes to our risk factors from the risk factors previously disclosed in the 2015 Annual Report. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by The Hartford with the SEC.The amendments to the risk factor noted below are due to potential impacts of the referendum vote on June 23, 2016, by the United Kingdom (“UK”) to leave the European Union (“EU”) (commonly referred to as “Brexit”). Risks Relating to Economic, Market and Political ConditionsUnfavorable conditions in our operating environment, including general economic and global capital market conditions, such as changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, market volatility, foreign exchange rates, commodities prices and real estate market deterioration, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.The Company’s investment portfolio and insurance liabilities are sensitive to changes in global capital market conditions. Stressed conditions or disruptions in global capital markets can directly impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity as well as impact the economic environment. Weak economic conditions, such as high unemployment, low labor force participation, lower family income, higher tax rates, lower business investment and lower consumer spending may have adversely affected or may in the future adversely affect the demand for insurance and financial products, as well as their profitability in some cases. Global economic conditions may result in the persistence of a low interest rate environment as well as volatility in other global capital market conditions, which will continue to pressure our investment results.Brexit has caused significant volatility in global stock markets and current exchange rates, and has deepened the political, economic and global market uncertainty. The geopolitical impacts of Brexit are unknown and may adversely affect long-term European and global economic growth and forecasts. The United States Federal Reserve and other major central banks may continue with the current accommodative monetary policy for a longer period of time due to increasingly higher levels of political and market turmoil that could persist until some clarity emerges around the UK’s exit process from the EU and the impact of the leave on the economies of the other European countries. A sustained low interest rate environment would pressure our net investment income and could result in lower margins and lower estimated gross profits on certain products. New and renewal business for our property and casualty and group benefits products is priced based on prevailing interest rates. As interest rates decline, pricing targets will tend to increase to offset the lower anticipated investment income earned on invested premiums. Conversely, as interest rates rise, pricing targets will tend to decrease to reflect higher anticipated investment income. Our ability to effectively react to such changes in pricing may affect our competitiveness in the marketplace, and in turn, written premium and earnings margin achieved. In addition, due to the long-term nature of the liabilities within our Group Benefits and Talcott Resolution operations, such as structured settlements and guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, sustained declines in long-term interest rates subjects us to reinvestment risks, increased hedging costs, spread compression and capital volatility. A rise in interest rates, in the absence of other countervailing changes, will reduce the market value of our investment portfolio and, if long-term interest rates were to rise dramatically certain products within our Talcott Resolution segment might be exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate assets in an unrealized loss position. An increase in interest rates can also impact our tax planning strategies and, in particular, our ability to utilize tax benefits to offset certain previously recognized realized capital losses.One important exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with our operations in Mutual Funds and Talcott Resolution, such as variable annuities, where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the assets under management. Should equity markets decline from current levels, assets under management and related fee income will be reduced. Certain of our products have guaranteed benefits that increase our potential obligation and statutory capital exposure when equity markets decline. Sustained declines in equity markets may result in the need to utilize significant additional capital to support these products and adversely affect our ability to support our other businesses.Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to changes in market price of fixed income instruments associated with changes in credit spreads. If issuer credit spreads widen significantly and remain at wide levels over an extended period of time, other-than-temporary impairments and decreases in the market value of our investment portfolio will likely result. In addition, losses may also occur due to volatility in credit spreads. When credit spreads widen, we incur losses associated with credit derivatives where the Company assumes exposure. When credit spreads tighten, we incur losses associated with derivatives where the Company has purchased credit protection. If credit spreads tighten significantly, the Company's net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturities may be reduced.128Our statutory surplus is also affected by widening credit spreads as a result of the accounting for the assets and liabilities on our fixed market value adjusted (“MVA”) annuities. Statutory separate account assets supporting the fixed MVA annuities are recorded at fair value. In determining the statutory reserve for the fixed MVA annuities we are required to use current crediting rates. In many capital market scenarios, current crediting rates are highly correlated with market rates implicit in the fair value of statutory separate account assets. As a result, the change in the statutory reserve from period to period will likely substantially offset the change in the fair value of the statutory separate account assets. However, in periods of volatile credit markets, actual credit spreads on investment assets may increase sharply for certain sub-sectors of the overall credit market, resulting in statutory separate account asset market value losses. As actual credit spreads are not fully reflected in current crediting rates, the calculation of statutory reserves may not substantially offset the change in fair value of the statutory separate account assets, resulting in reductions in statutory surplus. This may result in the need to devote significant additional capital to support the fixed MVA product.In addition, a reduction in market liquidity can make it difficult to value certain of our securities when trading becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may be more susceptible to significant period-to-period changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.Our exposure to commodity prices primarily relates to our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio includes fixed maturities and equity securities issued by companies and sovereigns that derive a portion of their revenues from commodities, including oil, coal, natural gas, and precious and non-precious metals. In periods in which the prices of these and other commodities fall, absent other countervailing changes, decreases in the market value of our investment portfolio will likely result. If these declines in commodities prices are severe and persist over an extended period of time, other-than-temporary impairments may result.Significant declines in equity prices, changes in U.S. interest rates, changes in credit spreads, inflation, or real estate market deterioration, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Our hedging assets seek to reduce the net economic sensitivity of our potential obligations from guaranteed benefits to equity market and interest rate fluctuations. Because of the accounting asymmetries between our hedging targets and statutory and GAAP accounting principles for our guaranteed benefits, rising equity markets and/or rising interest rates may result in statutory or GAAP losses.129Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS