Item 1A. Risk FactorsItem 1A. RISK FACTORSInvesting in The Hartford involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in The Hartford, you should carefully consider the risk factors disclosed below and in Item 1A of Part I of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, as updated by Item 1A of Part II of the Company's Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2018, any of which could have a significant or material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity of The Hartford. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by The Hartford with the SEC.Strategic and Operational RisksFailure to complete our proposed acquisition of Navigators Group could impact our securities. The completion of the Navigators Group acquisition is subject to a number of conditions, including the approval of Navigators Group’s shareholders and the receipt of required antitrust and insurance regulatory approvals. The failure to satisfy all the required conditions could prevent the acquisition from occurring. In addition, regulators could impose additional requirements or obligations as conditions for their approvals, which may be burdensome. We can provide no assurance that we will obtain the necessary approvals within the estimated timeframe or at all, or that any such requirements that are imposed by regulators would not result in the termination of the transaction. Investors’ reactions to a failure to complete the Navigators Group acquisition, including possible speculation about alternative uses of capital, may cause volatility in our securities. A failure to complete a proposed transaction of this nature can also result in litigation by shareholders and other disaffected parties. Furthermore, we will have incurred costs, and devoted management time and resources, in connection with the transaction for which we will receive little or no benefit. In addition, even if we complete the proposed Navigators Group acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate Navigators Group into our business and therefore may not be able to achieve the synergies we would expect to receive as a result of the acquisition. 115Part II - Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds