Item 1A. Risk FactorsItem 1A. RISK FACTORSInvesting in The Hartford involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in The Hartford, you should carefully consider the risk factors disclosed in Item 1A of Part I of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (collectively, the "Company's Risk Factors" or individually, the "Company's Risk Factor"), any of which could have a significant or material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity of The Hartford. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by The Hartford with the SEC.The Company’s Risk Factors are amended due to the sale of the Company's life and annuity business. On May 31, 2018, the Company completed the sale of its life and annuity run-off business, Talcott Resolution, to a group of investors, led by Cornell Capital LLC, Atlas Merchant Capital LLC, TRB Advisors LP, Global Atlantic Financial Group, Pine Brook and J. Safra Group.The introduction to the Company’s Risk Factors is updated to remove references to the sale of the Company’s life and annuity business and replaced in its entirety with the following:In deciding whether to invest in The Hartford, you should carefully consider the following risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation or liquidity and could also impact the trading price of our securities. These risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under “Forward-Looking Statements” above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following risk factors have been organized by category for ease of use, however many of the risks may have impacts in more than one category. The occurrence of certain of them may, in turn, cause the emergence or exacerbate the effect of others. Such a combination could materially increase the severity of the impact of these risks on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.The Company’s Risk Factor “We are vulnerable to losses from catastrophes, both natural and man-made" is also updated to remove references to separate accounts and the sentence below is replaced in its entirety with the following:These consequences could have an adverse effect on the value of the assets in our investment portfolio. In addition, the Company's Risk Factor "Losses due to nonperformance or defaults by counterparties can have a material adverse effect on the value of our investments, reduce our profitability or sources of liquidity" is updated and replaced in its entirety with the following:We have credit risk with counterparties associated with investments, derivatives, premiums receivable, reinsurance recoverables and indemnifications provided by third parties in connection with previous dispositions. Among others, our counterparties include issuers of fixed maturity and equity securities we hold, borrowers of  mortgage loans we hold, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors. These counterparties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud, government intervention and other reasons. In addition, for exchange-traded derivatives, such as futures, options and "cleared" over-the-counter derivatives, the Company is generally exposed to the credit risk of the relevant central counterparty clearing house. Defaults by these counterparties on their obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on the value of our investments, business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, if the underlying assets supporting the structured securities we invest in default on their payment obligations, our securities will incur losses.The Company's Risk Factors are also updated to remove in its entirety the Risk Factor “Risks Relating to the Pending Sale of Our Life and Annuity Business."118Part II - Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds