Item 1A. Risk Factors There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, other than those listed in this section.Our plan to separate into two independent publicly-traded companies is subject to various risks and uncertainties and may not be completed in accordance with the expected plans or anticipated timeline, or at all, and will involve significant time and expense, which could disrupt or adversely affect our business.On February 21, 2018, we announced plans to separate into two independent publicly-traded companies. Completion of the Separation was approved by our Board of Directors on October 24, 2018; however, the Separation and Distribution remain subject to market, regulatory and certain other conditions. Unanticipated developments, including changes in the competitive conditions of our upstream and midstream businesses, possible delays in obtaining various tax opinions or rulings, regulatory approvals or clearances, the uncertainty of the financial markets and challenges in executing the Separation, could delay or prevent the completion of the proposed Separation, or cause the proposed Separation to occur on terms or conditions that are different or less favorable than expected.We expect that the process of completing the proposed Separation will be time-consuming and involve significant costs and expenses, which may be significantly higher than what we currently anticipate and may not yield a discernible benefit if the Separation is not completed. Executing the proposed Separation will require significant time and attention from our senior management and employees, which could adversely affect our business, financial results and results of operations. We may also experience increased difficulties in attracting, retaining and motivating employees during the pendency of the Separation and following its completion, which could harm our businesses.The Separation may not achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits.We may not realize some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational or other benefits from the Separation. As independent publicly-traded companies, our upstream and midstream businesses will be smaller, less diversified companies with a narrower business focus and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect their respective business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, there can be no assurance that the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly-traded companies will be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the proposed Separation not occurred.53Table of ContentsThe Separation and Distribution could result in substantial tax liability.The Separation will be effected by a pro rata distribution to our shareholders of 80.1% of the outstanding stock of Equitrans Midstream. We have obtained (i) a private letter ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) and intend to obtain (ii) one or more opinions of outside counsel regarding the qualification of the Distribution, together with certain related transactions, as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the Code) and certain other U.S. federal income tax matters relating to the Distribution and certain related transactions. The IRS private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel will be based upon and rely on, among other things, various facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of us and Equitrans Midstream, including those relating to the past and future conduct of us and Equitrans Midstream. If any of these representations, statements or undertakings is, or becomes, inaccurate or incomplete, or if we or Equitrans Midstream breach any representations or covenants contained in any of the Separation-related agreements and documents or in any documents relating to the IRS private letter ruling and/or the opinion of counsel, the IRS private letter ruling and/or the opinion of counsel may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. Notwithstanding receipt of the IRS private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel, the IRS could determine that the Distribution and/or certain related transactions should be treated as taxable transactions for U.S. federal income tax purposes if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings upon which the IRS private letter ruling or the opinion of counsel was based are false or have been violated. In addition, any opinion of counsel will represent the judgment of such counsel and is not binding on the IRS or any court and the IRS or a court may disagree with the conclusions in such opinion of counsel. Accordingly, notwithstanding receipt of the IRS private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert that the Distribution and/or certain related transactions do not qualify for the intended tax treatment or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. In the event the IRS were to prevail with such challenge, we, Equitrans Midstream and our shareholders could be subject to material U.S. federal income tax liability. Even if the Distribution otherwise qualifies as generally tax-free under Section 355 and Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, it would result in a material U.S. federal income tax liability to us (but not to our shareholders) under Section 355(e) of the Code if one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, a 50-percent or greater interest (measured by either vote or value) in our stock or in the stock of Equitrans Midstream (excluding, for this purpose, the acquisition of stock of Equitrans Midstream by holders of our stock in the Distribution) as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Distribution. Any acquisition of our stock or stock of Equitrans Midstream (or any predecessor or successor corporation) within two years before or after the Distribution generally would be presumed to be part of a plan that includes the Distribution, although the parties may be able to rebut that presumption under certain circumstances. The process for determining whether an acquisition is part of a plan under these rules is complex, inherently factual in nature and subject to a comprehensive analysis of the facts and circumstances of the particular case. Notwithstanding the IRS private letter ruling or any opinion of counsel described above, we or Equitrans Midstream may cause or permit a change in ownership of our stock or stock of Equitrans Midstream sufficient to result in a material tax liability to us.In connection with the Distribution and to effect the Separation, we expect to effect certain restructuring transactions that are expected to be taxable to us (but not our shareholders) and to result in a material tax liability, which we expect to be offset in part by certain tax attributes. We may determine to forgo certain transactions in order to avoid the risk of incurring material tax-related liabilities.As a result of requirements of Section 355 of the Code and/or other applicable tax laws, we may determine to forgo certain transactions that would otherwise be advantageous. In particular, we may determine to continue to operate certain of our business operations for the foreseeable future even if a sale or discontinuance of such business would otherwise be advantageous. Moreover, in light of the requirements of Section 355(e) of the Code, we may determine to forgo certain transactions, including share repurchases, stock issuances, certain asset dispositions and other strategic transactions, for some period of time following the Separation. The proposed Separation may result in disruptions to, and negatively impact our relationships with, our customers and other business partners.Uncertainty related to the proposed Separation may lead customers and other parties with which we currently do business or may do business in the future to terminate or attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships, or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than us. These disruptions could have a material and adverse effect on our business, 54Table of Contentsfinancial condition, results of operations and prospects. Further, the effect of such disruptions could be exacerbated by any delays in the completion of the Separation.The regulatory approval process for the construction of new midstream assets is challenging, and recent decisions by regulatory and judicial authorities in pending proceedings could impact EQM's or the MVP Joint Venture's ability to obtain all approvals and authorizations necessary to complete certain projects on the projected time frame or at all or its ability to achieve the expected investment return on the project.Certain of EQM’s internal growth projects may require regulatory approval from federal, state and local authorities prior to construction, including any extensions from or additions to our transmission and storage system. The approval process for storage and transportation projects has become increasingly challenging, due in part to state and local concerns related to exploration and production and gathering activities in new production areas, including the Marcellus, Utica and Upper Devonian Shales, and negative public perception regarding the oil and gas industry. Such authorization may not be granted or, if granted, such authorization may include burdensome or expensive conditions.In addition, any significant delays in the regulatory approval process for the MVP project could increase costs and negatively impact the scheduled in-service date of fourth quarter 2019, which in turn could adversely affect the ability for MVP and its owners, including EQM, to achieve the expected investment return. The MVP project is subject to several challenges that must be resolved before the MVP project can be completed. For example, on October 2, 2018, the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals vacated the MVP project’s use of U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Nationwide Permit 12 in West Virginia. In related proceedings, the MVP project’s use of Nationwide Permit 12 has also been stayed on other segments of the project. Although the MVP Joint Venture is actively defending the relevant agency actions and judicial challenges to the project, and is in active dialogue with all of the affected agencies to resolve these issues and restore the affected permits, there is no guarantee as to how long the agency proceedings and judicial challenges will take to resolve, or whether the MVP Joint Venture will ultimately succeed in restoring the permits in their present form or within the MVP Joint Venture's targeted time frame for placing the project in service. This and other similar litigation could adversely affect EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us and EQGP.55Table of ContentsItem 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds