Item 1A: Risk Factors  Please read “Risk factors” under Part I, Item 1A in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year end December 31, 2007, some of which are updated below. These risks are not the only ones facing the Company.  21    Table of Contents  Please also see “Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements” on page 20. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and its operating results.  Competition and the Analytical Instrument Market The analytical instrument market and, in particular, the portion related to the Company’s HPLC, UPLC, MS, LC-MS, thermal analysis, rheometry and calorimetry product lines, is highly competitive and subject to rapid changes in technology. The Company encounters competition from several international instrument manufacturers and other companies in both domestic and foreign markets. Some competitors have instrument businesses that are generally more diversified than the Company’s business but are typically less focused on the Company’s chosen markets. There can be no assurances that the Company’s competitors will not introduce more effective and less costly products than those of the Company or that the Company will be able to increase its sales and profitability from new product introductions. There can be no assurances that the Company’s sales and marketing forces will compete successfully against its competitors in the future.   Additionally, the analytical instrument market may, from time to time, experience low sales growth. Approximately 52% of the Company’s net sales in 2007 were to worldwide pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, which may be periodically subject to unfavorable market conditions and consolidations. There has been no material change in this percentage of net sales to these industries in the first three months of 2008. Unfavorable industry conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition.  Risk of Disruption The Company manufactures LC instruments at facilities in Milford, Massachusetts and Singapore; chemistry separation columns at its facilities in Taunton, Massachusetts and Wexford, Ireland; MS products at its facilities in Manchester, England, Cheshire, England and Wexford, Ireland; thermal analysis products at its facility in New Castle, Delaware; rheometry products at its facilities in New Castle, Delaware and Crawley, England and other instruments and consumables at various other locations as a result of acquisitions in 2006 and 2007. Any prolonged disruption to the operations at any of these facilities, whether due to labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to either facility or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition.  Foreign Operations and Exchange Rates Approximately 70% and 69% of the Company’s net sales in the first three months of 2008 and 2007, respectively, were outside the United States and were primarily denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, the Company has considerable manufacturing operations in Ireland and the United Kingdom. As a result, a significant portion of the Company’s sales and operations are subject to certain risks, including adverse developments in the foreign political and economic environment; tariffs and other trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and potentially adverse tax consequences.   Additionally, the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s net sales and cost of sales varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. Significant increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition.  Reliance on Key Management The operation of the Company requires managerial and operational expertise. None of the key management employees has an employment contract with the Company and there can be no assurance that such individuals will remain with the Company. There has been no change in key management employees in the first three months of 2008. If, for any reason, such key personnel do not continue to be active in management, the Company’s results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected.  Protection of Intellectual Property The Company vigorously protects its intellectual property rights and seeks patent coverage on all developments that it regards as material and patentable. However, there can be no assurances that any patents held by the Company will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights grated there under will provide competitive advantages to the Company. Conversely, there could be successful claims against the Company by third-party patent holders with respect to certain Company products that may infringe the intellectual property rights of such third  22    Table of Contents  parties. The Company’s patents, including those licensed from others, expire on various dates. There has been no material change in the claims against the Company’s intellectual property rights or patents in the first three months of 2008. If the Company is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, it could have an adverse and material effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.  Reliance on Customer Demand The demand for the Company’s products is dependent upon the size of the markets for its LC, MS, thermal analysis, rheometry and calorimetry products; the timing and level of capital expenditures of the Company’s customers; changes in government regulations; funding available to academic and government institutions; general economic conditions and the rate of economic growth in the Company’s major markets and competitive considerations. There can be no assurances that the Company’s results of operations or financial condition will not be adversely impacted by a change in any of the factors listed above.  Reliance on Suppliers Most of the raw materials, components and supplies purchased by the Company are available from a number of different suppliers; however, a number of items are purchased from limited or single sources of supply and disruption of these sources could have a temporary adverse effect on shipments and the financial results of the Company. The Company believes alternative sources could ordinarily be obtained to supply these materials, but a prolonged inability to obtain certain materials or components could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations and could result in damage to its relationships with its customers and, accordingly, adversely affect the Company’s business.  Reliance on Outside Manufacturers Certain components or modules of the Company’s LC and MS instruments are manufactured by long-standing outside contractors. In April 2006, the Company transitioned the manufacturing of the Alliance® HPLC instrument system to a company in Singapore. Disruptions of service by these outside contractors could have an adverse effect on the supply chain and the financial results of the Company. The Company believes that it could obtain alternative sources for these components or modules, but a prolonged inability to obtain these components or modules could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.  Risk in Unexpected Shifts in Taxable Income between Tax Jurisdictions The Company is subject to a range of income tax rates, from 0% to in excess of 35%, depending on specific tax jurisdictions around the world. The Company typically generates a substantial portion of its taxable income in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. Shifts in actual taxable income from previous quarters’ projections due to factors, including, but not limited to, changes in volume and foreign currency translation rates, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s income tax expense and results of operations.  Levels of Debt and Debt Service Requirements The Company had approximately $929.3 million in debt and $758.5 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of March 29, 2008. As of March 29, 2008, the Company also has the ability to borrow an additional $348.5 million from its existing credit facilities. Most of the Company’s debt is in the U.S.. While there is a substantial cash requirement in the U.S. to fund operations and capital expenditures, service debt interest obligations, finance potential acquisitions and continue authorized stock repurchase programs, a majority of the Company’s cash is maintained and generated from foreign operations. The Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted if the Company is unable to maintain a sufficient level of cash flow in the U.S. to address these requirements through cash from U.S. operations, efficient and timely repatriation of cash from overseas and other sources obtained at an acceptable cost.  23    Table of Contents     Item 2: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds