Item 1A. Risk Factors  The following is an update to Part I, “Item 1A – Risk Factors” contained in our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K. For additional risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated, please refer to our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Securities lending indemnifications may reduce earnings from time to time.  On behalf of certain clients and with their legal authorization, we lend securities to highly rated banks and broker-dealers. In these securities lending transactions, the borrower is required to provide and maintain collateral of cash, marketable securities or highly rated debt securities in an amount representing at least 102% of the market value of the securities borrowed. Securities on loan are marked to market daily to determine if the borrower is required to pledge additional collateral. In connection with these activities, BlackRock, together with Barclays (as described below), has issued certain indemnifications to certain clients against potential loss as a direct result of a borrower’s failure to fulfill its obligations under the related securities lending agreement should the value of the collateral pledged by the borrower at the time of default be insufficient to cover the borrower’s obligations under such securities lending agreement. The amount of securities on loan as of March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 and subject to indemnification was $62.4 billion and $60.4 billion, respectively. We held, as agent, cash and securities totaling $64.4 billion and $62.2 billion as collateral for indemnified securities on loan at March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. As part of the BGI acquisition, Barclays is contractually obligated to continue providing counterparty default indemnification to certain BlackRock securities lending clients through December 1, 2012. As of March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, $60.0 billion and $57.9 billion, respectively, of the on loan balances of those BlackRock clients subject to indemnification were indemnified by Barclays. BlackRock intends to assume these indemnification obligations prior to or upon the expiration of Barclays’ indemnification obligation. We expect client balances indemnified by BlackRock to increase as a result of this transition and over time as our securities lending activities increase. By the end of the second quarter 2012, we expect that BlackRock will have agreed to indemnify certain of our clients for loan balances of approximately $44.3 billion.  While the collateral pledged by a borrower is intended to be sufficient to offset the borrower’s obligations to return securities borrowed and any other amounts owing to the lender under the relevant securities lending agreement, in the event of a borrower default, we can give no assurance that the collateral pledged by the borrower will be sufficient to fulfill such obligations. If the amount of such pledged collateral is not sufficient to fulfill such obligations to a client for whom we have provided indemnification, BlackRock would be responsible for the amount of the shortfall, which could result in additional costs to BlackRock that we cannot estimate with certainty at this time. These indemnifications cover only the collateral shortfall described above, and do not in any way, guarantee, assume or otherwise insure the investment performance or return of any cash collateral vehicle into which securities lending cash collateral is invested.  BlackRock may be adversely impacted by legal and regulatory changes in the United States and internationally.  On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “DFA”) was signed into law in the United States. The DFA is expansive in scope and requires the adoption of extensive regulations and numerous regulatory decisions in order to be implemented. The adoption of these regulations and decisions will in large measure determine the impact of the DFA on BlackRock.  The DFA and its regulations, and other new laws or regulations, including those affecting money market funds, or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations in the United States or internationally, could adversely impact the scope or profitability of BlackRock’s business activities, could require BlackRock to change certain business practices and could expose BlackRock to additional costs (including compliance and tax costs) and liabilities, as well as reputational harm. Among other potential impacts of the DFA, provisions of the DFA referred to as the Volcker Rule could, to the extent the final Volcker Rule is determined to apply to BlackRock’s activities, adversely impact the method by which BlackRock invests in and operates its investment funds, including private equity funds, hedge funds and fund of funds platforms. Also, if BlackRock were designated a systemically important financial institution, it could be subject to enhanced prudential, supervisory and other requirements, which, individually or in the aggregate, could adversely impact BlackRock’s business and operations. Moreover, additional regulations related to money market funds, which, if adopted, could significantly alter money market fund products and the entire money market fund industry. Further, regulations under the DFA relating to regulation of swaps and derivatives could impact the manner by which BlackRock and BlackRock-advised funds and accounts use and trade swaps and other derivatives, and could significantly increase the costs of derivatives trading. Additionally, the SEC, the Internal Revenue Service and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) each continue to review the use of futures and derivatives by mutual funds, which could result in regulations that further limit the use of futures and derivatives by mutual funds. If adopted, these limitations could require BlackRock to change certain mutual fund business practices or to register additional entities with the CFTC, which could result in additional costs and/or restrictions. Regulatory changes could also lead to business disruptions, could adversely impact the value of assets in which BlackRock has invested on behalf of clients and/or via seed or co-investments, and, to the extent the regulations strictly control the activities of financial services firms, could make it more difficult for BlackRock to conduct certain business activities or distinguish itself from competitors. See Part I, “Item 1—Business—Regulation” contained in our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding certain laws and regulations that affect BlackRock’s business.    80    Table of Contents   Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds