Item 1A. Risk Factors  BlackRock may be adversely impacted by legal and regulatory changes in the United States and internationally.  In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “DFA”) was signed into law. The DFA is expansive in scope and requires the adoption of extensive regulations and numerous regulatory decisions in order to be implemented. The adoption of these regulations and decisions will in large measure determine the impact of the DFA on BlackRock. BlackRock is continuing to review the impact of the legislation and related rule-making will have on its business, financial condition and results of operations.  The business impact of the DFA and its regulations, and other new laws or regulations, including those affecting money market funds, or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations in the United States or internationally, could adversely impact the scope or profitability of BlackRock’s business activities, could require BlackRock to change certain business practices and could expose BlackRock to additional costs (including compliance and tax costs).  The DFA charges the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve”) with establishing enhanced regulatory requirements for non-bank financial institutions designated as “systemically important” by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”). Among the potential impacts of the DFA, if BlackRock were designated a systemically important financial institution, it could be subject to these enhanced prudential, supervisory and other requirements, which, individually or in the aggregate, could adversely impact BlackRock’s business and operations.  Provisions of the DFA referred to as the “Volcker Rule” place limitations on the ability of banks to engage in proprietary trading and to invest in and transact with certain investment funds, including hedge funds, private equity funds and funds of those funds (collectively “covered funds”). It is expected that the Volcker Rule will apply to BlackRock by virtue of BlackRock’s relationship to PNC, and BlackRock could become subject to similar limitations if it is designated a systemically important non-bank financial institution. The Volcker Rule becomes fully effective in July 2014; however, final implementing regulations have not yet been issued. To the extent the Volcker Rule applies to BlackRock, it would limit BlackRock’s ability to make and retain investments in covered funds, require BlackRock to remove its name from the name of its covered funds, and limit investments in covered funds by BlackRock employees, among other restrictions. The scope of the definition of “covered funds” is not yet known, and therefore these restrictions could apply to funds other than those commonly referred to as hedge funds and private equity funds. These limitations and restrictions could disadvantage BlackRock against those competitors that are not subject to the Volcker Rule in the ability to attract clients into BlackRock covered funds and to retain employees.  SEC officials have stated publicly that the agency is considering proposing additional regulations for money market mutual funds that are designed to address certain concerns arising from the financial crisis. Such proposals may include floating the net asset value of funds, requiring that a portion of redemptions be held back by the fund for a period of time and the retention of capital or other forms of capital support. If adopted, these proposals, which also have been publicly supported by FSOC, could significantly affect money market fund products and the entire money market fund industry. In light of the uncertainty regarding what changes may be proposed and what might ultimately be adopted in a final rule, we cannot predict what investor appetite will be for money market mutual fund products following the adoption of any such reforms or the impact of such reforms on BlackRock.    91    Table of Contents   Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued)    The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”) has proposed amendments to the regulations governing bank-maintained short-term investment funds (“STIFs”). The proposal seeks to amend the investment parameters for STIFs to be more aligned with changes enacted in 2010 by the SEC for money market mutual funds. The proposed amendments would, among other things, require STIFs to maintain a weighted average portfolio life maturity (based on the legal final maturity date of an instrument rather than the next interest reset date) of 120 days or less. This new requirement, if adopted by the OCC as proposed, may require certain STIFs managed by BlackRock to sell certain portfolio securities in order to comply with the new portfolio restrictions, although the timing for the implementation of such requirement is uncertain. We are analyzing the proposed amendments and potential compliance options, but due to the uncertainties we cannot presently estimate the impact that such revised rules, if enacted as proposed, would have on the STIFs we manage or our business.  Further, regulations under the DFA relating to regulation of swaps and derivatives could impact the manner by which BlackRock-advised funds and accounts use and trade swaps and other derivatives, and could significantly increase the costs of derivatives trading conducted by BlackRock on behalf of its clients. BlackRock will also need to build new compliance mechanisms to monitor compliance with SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) rules concerning, among other things, the identity and registration status of dealer counterparties, the status of clients as so-called “special entities” or major swap participants and use of newly created legal entity identifiers used to report and track all swap transactions. BlackRock, on behalf of its clients, is also preparing for mandated central clearing of swaps and mandated trading venue requirements, and is preparing for the CFTC’s position limit restrictions on certain commodities to be extended to include swap transactions.  In addition, BlackRock has begun reporting certain information about a number of its private funds to the SEC, and will soon begin reporting certain information about a number of its commodity pools to the CFTC, pursuant to new systemic risk reporting requirements adopted by both agencies, which have required, and will continue to require, investments in people and systems to assure timely and accurate reporting.  The SEC, the Internal Revenue Service and the CFTC each continue to review the use of futures and derivatives by mutual funds, which could result in regulations that further limit the use of futures and derivatives by mutual funds. If adopted, these limitations could require BlackRock to change certain mutual fund business practices or to register additional entities with the CFTC, which could result in additional costs and/or restrictions.  Regulatory changes could also lead to business disruptions, could adversely impact the value of assets in which BlackRock has invested on behalf of clients and/or via seed or co-investments, and, to the extent the regulations strictly control the activities of financial services firms, could make it more difficult for BlackRock to conduct certain business activities or distinguish itself from competitors. See Part I, “Item 1 – Business – Regulation” contained in our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding certain laws and regulations that affect BlackRock’s business.    92    Table of Contents   Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds