Item 1A—Risk Factors in our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K.46Table of ContentsItem 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKInformation about market risks for the nine months ended September 30, 2013, does not differ materially from that discussed under Item 7A in our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Item 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURESWe maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Act), is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. As of September 30, 2013, with the participation of management, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and our Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer carried out an evaluation, pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) of the Act, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Act). Based upon that evaluation, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and our Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were operating effectively as of September 30, 2013.There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Act, in the period covered by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.PART II. OTHER INFORMATIONItem 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSThe following is a description of reportable legal proceedings, including those involving governmental authorities under federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, for this reporting period. There were no material developments with respect to matters previously reported in our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K or the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2013, and June 30, 2013.  Information with respect to the one new matter that arose during the third quarter of 2013 is reflected below.  While it is not possible to accurately predict the final outcome of these pending proceedings, if any one or more of such proceedings were decided adversely to Phillips 66, we expect there would be no material effect on our consolidated financial position. Nevertheless, such proceedings are reported pursuant to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) regulations.Our U.S. refineries are implementing two separate consent decrees, regarding alleged violations of the Federal Clean Air Act, with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), six states and one local air pollution agency. Some of the requirements and limitations contained in the decrees provide for stipulated penalties for violations. Stipulated penalties under the decrees are not automatic, but must be requested by one of the agency signatories. As part of periodic reports under the decrees or other reports required by permits or regulations, we occasionally report matters that could be subject to a request for stipulated penalties. If a specific request for stipulated penalties meeting the reporting threshold set forth in SEC rules is made pursuant to these decrees based on a given reported exceedance, we will separately report that matter and the amount of the proposed penalty.New MattersPhillips 66 is working to resolve allegations brought by the U.S. Attorney's office that the Company violated the Migratory Bird Treaty Act with respect to bird deaths in a refinery storage area brine pond near our Borger, Texas refinery. The bird deaths were self-reported by Phillips 66. 47Table of ContentsItem 1A. RISK FACTORSYou should carefully consider the following risk factor, in addition to the risk factors disclosed in Item 1A of our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K.One of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, Phillips 66 Partners LP, which may involve a greater exposure to legal liability than our historic business operations. One of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of Phillips 66 Partners LP, a publicly traded master limited partnership. Our control of the general partner of Phillips 66 Partners may increase the possibility that we could be subject to claims of breach of fiduciary duties, including claims of conflicts of interest, related to Phillips 66 Partners. Any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS