Item 1A—Risk Factors in our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Item 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKInformation about market risks for the three months ended March 31, 2013, does not differ materially from that discussed under Item 7A in our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Item 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURESWe maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Act), is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. As of March 31, 2013, with the participation of management, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and our Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer carried out an evaluation, pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) of the Act, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Act). Based upon that evaluation, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and our Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were operating effectively as of March 31, 2013.There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Act, in the period covered by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.PART II. OTHER INFORMATIONItem 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSThe following is a description of reportable legal proceedings, including those involving governmental authorities under federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, for this reporting period. The following proceedings include those matters that arose during the first quarter of 2013 and any material developments with respect to matters previously reported in our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K. While it is not possible to accurately predict the final outcome of these pending proceedings, if any one or more of such proceedings were decided adversely to Phillips 66, we expect there would be no material effect on our consolidated financial position. Nevertheless, such proceedings are reported pursuant to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) regulations.Our U.S. refineries are implementing two separate consent decrees, regarding alleged violations of the Federal Clean Air Act, with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), six states and one local air pollution agency. Some of the requirements and limitations contained in the decrees provide for stipulated penalties for violations. Stipulated penalties under the decrees are not automatic, but must be requested by one of the agency signatories. As part of periodic reports under the decrees or other reports required by permits or regulations, we occasionally report matters that could be subject to a request for stipulated penalties. If a specific request for stipulated penalties meeting the reporting threshold set forth in SEC rules is made pursuant to these decrees based on a given reported exceedance, we will separately report that matter and the amount of the proposed penalty.New MattersOn January 9, 2013, the South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) indicated that it was proceeding with enforcement regarding four Notices of Violation (NOVs) issued to the Company that allege violations of air pollution regulations and/or facility permit conditions relating to operations at the Los Angeles Refinery. We are working with SCAQMD to resolve these NOVs.43Table of ContentsMatters Previously ReportedIn October 2011, we were notified by the Attorney General of the State of California that it was conducting an investigation into possible violations of the regulations relating to the operation of underground storage tanks at gas stations in California. On January 3, 2013, we were served with a lawsuit filed by the California Attorney General that alleges such violations. We are contesting these allegations.On November 28, 2011, the Borger Refinery received a Notice of Enforcement from the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality for alleged emissions events that occurred during inclement weather in January and February 2011. We concluded this matter with a penalty payment of $15,400.Item 1A. RISK FACTORSThere have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in Item 1A of our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS