Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  The information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K may contain forward-looking statements. Statements that do not describe historical or current facts, including statements about beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. These statements often include the words “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “targets,” “initiatives,” “potentially,” “probably,” “projects,” “outlook” or similar expressions or future conditional verbs such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “would,” and “could.”  Forward looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties. Investors are cautioned against placing undue reliance on such statements. Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the management of SunTrust and on information currently available to management. The forward looking statements are intended to be subject to the safe harbor provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Such statements speak as of the date hereof, and SunTrust does not assume any obligation to update the statements included or incorporated by reference or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those contained in such statements in light of new information or future events.    6    Factors that might cause our future financial performance to vary from that described in our forward-looking statements include risks discussed in the MD&A and in other periodic reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the following discussion sets forth certain risks and uncertainties that we believe could cause actual future results to differ materially from expected results. However, other factors besides those listed below or discussed in our reports to the SEC also could adversely affect our results, and the reader should not consider this list of factors to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties.  Business Risks  As a financial services company, adverse changes in general business or economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse impacts on business:    •    A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us;    •    A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale;    •    An increase or decrease in the usage of unfunded commitments;    •    An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale.  Changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expense, the value of assets and obligations, costs of capital or liquidity.  Given our business mix, and the fact that most of the assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be particularly sensitive to market interest rate movement and the performance of the financial markets. In addition to the impact on the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways:    •    The value of certain on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments or the value of equity investments that we hold, in particular, holdings in common stock of The Coca-Cola Company, which as of December 31, 2006 were valued at approximately $2.3 billion;    •    The yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways;    •    The value of assets for which we provide processing services; or    •    To the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support the business, such changes could affect the cost of such funds or the ability to raise such funds.  The fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings.  The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. They also can materially decrease the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt securities and Mortgage Servicing Rights (“MSRs”). Its policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict.  A decline in the market for residential or commercial real estate could harm our revenues and profitability.  A significant percentage of our assets are secured by residential or commercial real estate mortgages. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in real estate values. Decreases in real estate     7     values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans and investments. If poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments may earn less income than real estate loans.  Clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing us to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding.  Checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing superior expected returns. When clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing the Company’s funding costs.  Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income.  Technology and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions without banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. This process could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of client deposits and the income generated from those deposits.  We have businesses other than banking which subjects the Company to a variety of risks.  We are a diversified financial services company. This diversity subjects earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties.  Hurricanes and other natural disasters may adversely affect loan portfolios and operations and increase the cost of doing business.  Large scale natural disasters may significantly affect loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral and by impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans. The ultimate impact of a natural disaster on future financial results is difficult to predict and will be affected by a number of factors, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent to which damaged collateral is not covered by insurance, the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by the natural disaster adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, and the cost of collection and foreclosure moratoriums, loan forbearances and other accommodations granted to borrowers and other clients.  Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues.  As a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our customers’ expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract and/or retain clients and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. Negative public opinion could also affect the Company’s credit ratings, which are important to its access to unsecured wholesale borrowings; significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding.  We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.  Third parties provide key components of the business infrastructure such as Internet connections and network access. Any disruption in Internet, network access or other voice or data communication services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect the ability to deliver products and services to clients and     8     otherwise to conduct business. Technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect the business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. We may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. Failures in the business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business.  We rely on our systems, employees and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely affect our operations.  We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and record-keeping errors, and computer/telecommunications systems malfunctions. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including relating to break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in a diminished ability of us to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect us.  We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages or natural disasters, or events arising from local or regional politics, including terrorist acts. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to us. In addition there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance.  We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties.  In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors.  Industry Risks  Regulation by federal and state agencies could adversely affect the business, revenue and profit margins.  We are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies. This regulation is to protect depositors, the federal deposit insurance fund and the banking system as a whole. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us adversely, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. Also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could receive regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. For more information, refer to Item 1 - “Business” beginning on page 1 of this Form 10-K.    9    Competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in losing business or reducing margins.  We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation. We face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. The ability of nonbanking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Because nonbanking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. This may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. As a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability.  Future legislation could harm our competitive position.  Congress occasionally considers proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system and to expand or contract the powers of banking institutions and bank holding companies. Such legislation may change banking statutes and the operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our activities, financial condition, or results of operations.  Maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services.  Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest margin and revenues from fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or development in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases.  The Parent Company’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries accounts for most of its revenue and could affect its liquidity and ability to pay dividends.  The Parent Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Parent Company’s common stock and interest and principal on its debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of its nonbank subsidiaries may pay to the Parent Company. Also, the Parent Company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. Limitations on the Parent Company’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on the Parent Company’s liquidity and ability to pay dividends on common stock. For more information, refer to the “Liquidity Risk” section beginning on page 41 and Note 14, “Capital,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements.    10    Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities.  We are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. We may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  Company Risks  We have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits.  We have historically pursued an acquisition strategy, and intend to continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected.  Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. We may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired company. As a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, and results of operations.  Furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bank holding company. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution’s record of compliance under the Community Reinvestment Act, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. In addition, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. Consequently, we might be required to sell portions of the acquired institution as a condition to receiving regulatory approval or we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the acquisition despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it.  We depend on the expertise of key personnel. If these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer.  The success of our business to date has been, and the continuing success will be, dependent to a large degree on the continued services of executive officers, especially our President and Chief Executive Officer, James M. Wells, III, and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the industry. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of the executive officers or other key personnel. If we lose the services of any of these integral personnel and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, the business could be impacted.    11    We may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement the business strategy.  Our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. We face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. Our ability to execute the business strategy and provide high quality service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially.  Our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. They may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain.  Accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report the financial condition and results of operations. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (“US GAAP”).  Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management’s judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, or reducing a liability. We have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty of estimates about these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. See the “Critical Accounting Policies” section beginning on page 63 and Note 1, “Accounting Policies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report for more information.  Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition.  From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements.  Our stock price can be volatile.  Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including:    •    variations in our quarterly operating results;    •    changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry;    •    fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes;    •    issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future;    •    the addition or departure of key personnel;    •    seasonal fluctuations;    •    changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding SunTrust or shares of our common stock; and    •    announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures.  General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results.    12    Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.  Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by SunTrust in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.  These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.      Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS