Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS  The risks contained in this report are not the only risks faced by us. Additional risks that are not presently known, or that we presently deem to be immaterial, also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects. This Report also contains forward-looking statements that may not be realized as a result of certain factors, including, but not limited to, the risks described herein and in our other public filings with the SEC. Please refer to the section in this Report entitled “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” for additional information regarding forward-looking statements.  Business Risks  Weakness in the economy and in the real estate market, including specific weakness within our geographic footprint, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us.  If the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we conduct operations declines, or continues to decline, this could result in, among other things, a deterioration of credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on our loan portfolio and allowance for loan and lease losses. A significant portion of our residential mortgages and commercial real estate loan portfolios are composed of borrowers in the Southeastern and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States, in which certain markets have been particularly adversely affected by declines in real estate value, declines in home sale volumes, and declines in new home building. These factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  Weakness in the real estate market, including the secondary residential mortgage loan markets, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us.  Significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of many mortgage loans. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans that we hold, mortgage loan originations and profits on sale of mortgage loans. Declining real estate prices and higher interest rates have caused higher delinquencies and losses on certain mortgage loans, particularly Alt-A mortgages and home equity lines of credit and mortgage loans sourced from brokers that are outside our branch bank network. These trends could continue. These conditions have resulted in losses, write downs and impairment charges in our mortgage and other lines of business, especially in the third and fourth quarters of 2007. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, interest rate resets on adjustable rate mortgage loans or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, decreases in real estate values might adversely affect the creditworthiness of state and local governments, and this might result in decreased profitability or credit losses from loans made to such governments.    5    Table of Contents As a financial services company, adverse changes in general business or economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse impacts on our business:      •    A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us;      •    A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate;      •    An increase or decrease in the usage of unfunded commitments;      •    An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale.  Changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expense, the value of assets and obligations, costs of capital or liquidity.  Given our business mix, and the fact that most of the assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be sensitive to market interest rate movement and the performance of the financial markets. In addition to the impact on the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways:      •    The yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways;      •    The value of certain on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments or the value of equity investments that we hold, in particular, holdings in common stock of The Coca-Cola Company, which as of December 31, 2007 were valued at approximately $2.7 billion;      •    The value of assets for which we provide processing services; or      •    To the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support the business, such changes could affect the cost of such funds or the ability to raise such funds.  The fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings.  The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. They also can materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities and mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”). Its policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict.  We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.  When we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. The remedies available to us against the originating broker or correspondent may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans against us, and we face the further risk that the originating broker or correspondent may not have the financial capacity to perform remedies that otherwise may be available to us. Therefore, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to recover our losses from the originating broker or correspondent. Recently, we have received an increased number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers as a result of borrower fraud and early borrower payment defaults. While we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, there can be no assurance that these steps will be effective nor impact risk associated with loans sold in the past. If repurchase and indemnity demands increase, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected.    6    Table of Contents Clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing us to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding.  Checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing superior expected returns. When clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing the Company’s funding costs.  Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income.  Technology and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions without banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. This process could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of client deposits and the income generated from those deposits.  We have businesses other than banking which subjects the Company to a variety of risks.  We are a diversified financial services company. This diversity subjects earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties.  Hurricanes and other natural disasters may adversely affect loan portfolios and operations and increase the cost of doing business.  Large scale natural disasters may significantly affect loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral and by impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans. The nature and level of natural disasters cannot be predicted and may be exacerbated by global climate change. The ultimate impact of a natural disaster on future financial results is difficult to predict and will be affected by a number of factors, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent to which damaged collateral is not covered by insurance, the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by the natural disaster adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, and the cost of collection and foreclosure moratoriums, loan forbearances and other accommodations granted to borrowers and other clients.  Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues.  As a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our customers’ expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract and/or retain clients and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. Negative public opinion could also affect the Company’s credit ratings, which are important to its access to unsecured wholesale borrowings; significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding.  We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.  Third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as banking services, processing, and Internet connections and network access. Any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. Technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. We may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. Failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business.  We rely on our systems, employees and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely affect our operations.  We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and record-keeping errors, and computer/telecommunications systems malfunctions. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including relating to break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in a     7    Table of Contents  diminished ability of us to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect us.  We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages or natural disasters, or events arising from local or regional politics, including terrorist acts. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to us. In addition there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance.  We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties.  In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors.  Industry Risks  Regulation by federal and state agencies could adversely affect the business, revenue and profit margins.  We are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies. This regulation is to protect depositors, the federal deposit insurance fund and the banking system as a whole. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us adversely, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. Also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could receive regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. For more information, refer to Item 1,“Business,” of this Form 10-K.  Competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in losing business or reducing margins.  We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation. We face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. The ability of nonbanking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Because nonbanking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. This may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. As a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability.  Future legislation could harm our competitive position.  Congress occasionally considers proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system and to expand or contract the powers of banking institutions and bank holding companies. Such legislation may change banking statutes and the operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our activities, financial condition, or results of operations.  Maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services.  Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or development in technology,     8    Table of Contents  or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases.  The Parent Company’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries accounts for most of its revenue and could affect its liquidity and ability to pay dividends.  The Parent Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Parent Company’s common stock and interest and principal on its debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of its nonbank subsidiaries may pay to the Parent Company. Also, the Parent Company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. Limitations on the Parent Company’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on the Parent Company’s liquidity and ability to pay dividends on common stock. For more information, refer to the “Liquidity Risk” section in the MD&A and Note 14, “Capital,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities.  We are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. We may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  Company Risks  Recently declining values of residential real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results.  We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. A major change in the real estate market, such as deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our customer’s ability to pay these loans, which in turn could impact us. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future.  Deteriorating credit quality, particularly in real estate loans, has adversely impacted us and may continue to adversely impact us.  We have experienced a downturn in credit performance, particularly in the third and fourth quarters of 2007, and we expect credit conditions and the performance of our loan portfolio to continue to deteriorate in the near term. This deterioration has resulted in an increase in our loan loss reserves throughout 2007, which increases were driven primarily by residential real estate and home equity portfolios. Additional increases in loan loss reserves may be necessary in the future. Deterioration in the quality of our credit portfolio can have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations.  Disruptions in our ability to access global capital markets may negatively affect our capital resources and liquidity.  In managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our customers. Other sources of funding available to us, and upon which we rely as regular components of our liquidity risk management strategy, include inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the Federal Reserve discount window. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, our depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity.  We have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits.  We have historically pursued an acquisition strategy, and intend to continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed     9    Table of Contents  acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected.  Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. We may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired company. As a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, and results of operations.  Furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bank holding company. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution’s record of compliance under the Community Reinvestment Act, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. In addition, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. Consequently, we might be required to sell portions of the acquired institution as a condition to receiving regulatory approval or we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the acquisition despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it.  We depend on the expertise of key personnel. If these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer.  The success of our business has been, and the continuing success will be, dependent to a large degree on the continued services of executive officers, especially our President and Chief Executive Officer, James M. Wells III, and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the industry. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of the executive officers or other key personnel. If we lose the services of any of these integral personnel and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, the business could be impacted.  We may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement the business strategy.  Our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. We face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. Our ability to execute the business strategy and provide high quality service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially.  Our accounting policies and methods are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain.  Accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report the financial condition and results of operations. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (“US GAAP”).  Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management’s judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, or reducing a liability. We have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. See the “Critical Accounting Policies” section in the MD&A and Note 1, “Accounting Policies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report for more information.  Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition.  From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can     10    Table of Contents  materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements.  Our stock price can be volatile.  Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including:      •    variations in our quarterly operating results;      •    changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry;      •    fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes;      •    issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future;      •    the addition or departure of key personnel;      •    seasonal fluctuations;      •    changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding SunTrust or shares of our common stock; and      •    announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures.  General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results.  Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.  Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by SunTrust in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.  These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.  Our financial instruments carried at fair value expose the Company to certain market risks.  We maintain an available for sale securities portfolio and trading assets which include various types of instruments and maturities. Compared to December 31, 2006, in 2007, we increased the size of trading assets in conjunction with the Company’s adoption of the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 157 and SFAS No. 159. In addition, the Company elected to record selected fixed-rate debt, mortgage loans, securitization warehouses and other trading assets at fair value. The changes in fair value of the financial instruments elected to be carried at fair value pursuant to the provisions of SFAS No. 159 are recognized in earnings. The financial instruments carried at fair value are exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates and the Company’s market-based credit spreads, as well as to the risk of default by specific borrowers. The Company manages the market risks associated with these instruments through active hedging arrangements or broader asset/liability management strategies. Changes in the market values of these financial instruments could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We may classify additional financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value in the future.  Our revenues derived from our investment securities may be volatile and subject to a variety of risks.  We generally maintain investment portfolios in the fixed income, currency, commodity and equity markets. Unrealized gains and losses associated with our investment portfolio and mark to market gains and losses associated with our trading portfolio are affected by many factors, including our credit position, interest rate volatility, volatility in capital markets and other economic factors. Our return on such investments and trading have in the past experienced, and will likely in the future experience, volatility and such volatility may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  We may enter into transactions with off-balance sheet entities affiliated with SunTrust or its subsidiaries.  We engage in a variety of transactions with off-balance sheet entities with which we are affiliated. While we have no obligation, contractual or otherwise, to do so, under certain limited circumstances, these transactions may involve providing some form of financial support to these entities. Any such actions may cause us to recognize current or future gains or losses.     11    Table of Contents  Depending on the nature and magnitude of any transactions we enter into with off-balance sheet entities, accounting rules may require us to consolidate the financial results of these entities with our financial results.  We are subject to market risk associated with our asset management and commercial paper conduit businesses.  During 2007, we recorded approximately $525 million in market valuation losses related to securities that we purchased from certain money market funds managed by our subsidiary Trusco Capital Management, Inc. as well as Three Pillars Funding, LLC (“Three Pillars”), a multi-seller commercial paper conduit sponsored by us. At the time of purchase, these securities were predominantly AAA or AA-rated, residential mortgage-backed securities, structured investment vehicle (“SIVs”) securities, and corporate and consumer collateralized debt obligations. We cannot assure you that we will not sustain additional losses in the future related to these securities or the purchase of similar securities. The value of such securities may be effected by, among other things, a lack of liquidity in the market for these securities, deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying collateral, risks associated with the financial guarantees insuring the securities, and/or the fact that the respective investment vehicle enters restructuring proceedings. Such occurrences may materially adversely affect our financial condition, capital adequacy and results of operations.   Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS