Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  Possible Additional Risks  The risks listed here are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that are not presently known, or that we presently deem to be immaterial, also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, and prospects.  Recent Market, Legislative, and Regulatory Events  Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry.  Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs, initially of asset-backed securities (“ABS”) but spreading to other securities and loans, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit and fraud losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry.   Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented.  The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. Recently, volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Numerous facts and circumstances are considered when evaluating the carrying value of our goodwill. One of those considerations is the market capitalization of the Company, evaluated over a reasonable period of time, in relation to the aggregate estimated fair value of the reporting units. While this comparison provides some relative market information regarding the estimated fair value of the reporting units, it is not determinative and needs to be evaluated in the context of the current economic and political environment. However, significant and/or sustained declines in the Company’s market capitalization, especially in relation to the Company’s book value, could be an indication of potential impairment of goodwill.  The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.  Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  There can be no assurance that enacted legislation or any proposed federal programs will stabilize the U.S. financial system and such legislation and programs may adversely affect us.  On October 3, 2008, President George W. Bush signed into law the EESA. The legislation was the result of a proposal by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the U.S. Congress in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the Treasury will have the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”) and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the     6    Table of Contents  U.S. financial markets. Also on October 14, 2008, the Treasury announced a program under the EESA pursuant to which it would make senior preferred stock investments in participating financial institutions (the “Capital Purchase Program”). On October 14, 2008, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation announced the TLGP under the systemic risk exception to the Federal Deposit Act (“FDA”) pursuant to which the FDIC would offer a guarantee of certain financial institution indebtedness in exchange for an insurance premium to be paid to the FDIC by issuing financial institutions.  We have participated in the Capital Purchase Program and issued debt under the TLGP. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA and its implementing regulations, the FDIC programs, or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets or our participation in either program on our results. The failure of the EESA, the FDIC, or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and access to credit or the trading price of our common stock.  Contemplated and proposed legislation, state and federal programs, and increased government control or influence may adversely affect us by increasing the uncertainty in our lending operations and expose us to increased losses, including legislation that would allow bankruptcy courts to permit modifications to mortgage loans on a debtor’s primary residence, moratoriums on a mortgagor’s right to foreclose on property, and requirements that fees be paid to register other real estate owned property. Statutes and regulations may be altered that may potentially increase our costs to service and underwrite mortgage loans. Additionally, federal intervention and operation of formerly private institutions may adversely affect our rights under contracts with such institutions and the way in which we conduct business in certain markets.  The impact on us of recently enacted legislation, in particular the EESA and its implementing regulations, and actions by the FDIC, cannot be predicted at this time.  The programs established or to be established under the EESA and Troubled Asset Relief Program may have adverse effects upon us. Because we participate in the Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to increased regulation, and we may face additional regulations or changes to regulations to which we are subject as a result of our participation. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. For example, participation in the Capital Purchase Program limits (without the consent of the Treasury) our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. Also, the cumulative dividend payable under the preferred stock that we issued to the Treasury pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program increases from 5% to 9% after 5 years. Please also refer to our discussions of “Liquidity Risk” and “Capital Resources” in Item 7 of this report. Additionally, we may not deduct interest paid on our preferred stock for income tax purposes. Participating in the Capital Purchase Program also subjects us to additional executive compensation restrictions. We discuss these in greater detail in our proxy statement, which we incorporate by reference into Item 11 of this report.  Similarly, any program established by the FDIC under the systemic risk exception of the FDA, may adversely affect us whether we participate or not. Our participation in the TLGP requires we pay additional insurance premiums to the FDIC. Additionally, the FDIC has increased premiums on insured accounts because market developments, including the increase of failures in the banking industry, have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits.  Treasury “Stress Tests” and Other Actions may Adversely Affect Bank Operations and Value of Shares.  On February 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury Secretary outlined a plan to restore stability to the financial system. This announcement included reference to a plan by the Treasury to conduct “stress tests” of banks which received funds under the Capital Purchase Program and similar Treasury programs. The methods and procedures to be used by the Treasury in conducting its “stress tests,” how these methods and procedures will be applied, and the significance or consequence of such tests presently are not known. Any of these or their consequences could adversely affect us, our bank operations and the value of SunTrust shares, among other things.  Business Risks  Credit risk.  When we loan money, commit to loan money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their contracts. A number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, leases and lending commitments, derivatives, trading account assets, insurance arrangements with respect to such products, and assets held for sale. As one of the nation’s largest lenders, the credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. We estimate and establish reserves for credit risks and credit losses inherent in our credit exposure (including unfunded credit commitments). This process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to     7    Table of Contents  repay their loans. As is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we identify.  Weakness in the economy and in the real estate market, including specific weakness within our geographic footprint, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us.  If the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we conduct operations decline, or continue to decline, this could result in, among other things, a deterioration of credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on our loan portfolio and allowance for loan and lease losses. A significant portion of our residential mortgages and commercial real estate loan portfolios are composed of borrowers in the Southeastern and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States, in which certain markets have been particularly adversely affected by declines in real estate value, declines in home sale volumes, and declines in new home building. These factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  Weakness in the real estate market, including the secondary residential mortgage loan markets, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us.  Significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of many mortgage loans. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans that we hold, mortgage loan originations and profits on sales of mortgage loans. Declining real estate prices have caused higher delinquencies and losses on certain mortgage loans, particularly Alt-A mortgages and home equity lines of credit and mortgage loans sourced from brokers that are outside our branch bank network. These trends could continue. These conditions have resulted in losses, write downs and impairment charges in our mortgage and other lines of business. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes, financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, interest rate resets on adjustable rate mortgage loans or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers that could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, counterparties to insurance arrangements used to mitigate risk associated with increased foreclosures in the real estate market are stressed by weaknesses in the real estate market and a commensurate increase in the number of claims. Additionally, decreases in real estate values might adversely affect the creditworthiness of state and local governments, and this might result in decreased profitability or credit losses from loans made to such governments. A decline in home values or overall economic weakness could also have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate or other assets which we own upon foreclosing a loan and our ability to realize value on such assets.  Weakness in the real estate market may adversely affect our reinsurance subsidiary.  The Company has a subsidiary (Twin Rivers Insurance Company) which provides mortgage reinsurance on certain mortgage loans through contracts with several primary mortgage insurance companies. Under these contracts, Twin Rivers Insurance Company (“Twin Rivers”) provides aggregate excess loss coverage in a mezzanine layer in exchange for a portion of the pool’s mortgage insurance premiums. The reinsurance contracts are intended to place limits on Twin Rivers’ maximum exposure to losses by defining the loss amounts ceded to Twin Rivers, as well as by establishing trust accounts for each contract. The trust accounts, which are comprised of funds contributed by Twin Rivers plus premiums earned under the reinsurance contracts, are maintained to fund claims made under the specific reinsurance contracts with individual primary mortgage insurers and are independent of each other. If claims exceed funds held in the trust accounts, Twin Rivers does not expect to make additional contributions beyond future premiums earned under the existing contracts. Twin Rivers maintains a reserve for estimated losses under its reinsurance contracts, which is an estimate of losses resulting from claims to be paid by the trusts. On an ongoing basis, Twin Rivers assesses the sufficiency of future revenues, including premiums and investment income on funds held in the trusts, to cover future claims.  Due to the deterioration of the real estate market and an increase in defaults under mortgage contracts, the funds in certain trusts may be less than the obligations created under such contracts. Twin Rivers does not believe it is required nor does it intend to make additional capital contributions to cover obligations in excess of funds held by the trusts; however, Twin Rivers’ profitability could be adversely affected if the primary mortgage insurance companies pursue Twin Rivers for such shortfalls.  As a financial services company, adverse changes in general business or economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse impacts on our business:      •    A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us;      •    A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate;      •    An increase or decrease in the usage of unfunded commitments;    8    Table of Contents     •    A loss of clients and/or reduced earnings could trigger an impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill;      •    An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale.  Changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expense, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital or liquidity.  Given our business mix, and the fact that most of the assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be sensitive to market interest rate movements and the performance of the financial markets. In addition to the impact of the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways:      •    The yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways;      •    The value of certain balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments or the value of equity investments that we hold could decline;      •    The value of assets for which we provide processing services could decline; or      •    To the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support our business, such changes could affect the cost of such funds or the ability to raise such funds.  The fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings.  The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. They can also materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities and mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”). Its policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict.  We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition.  When we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. The remedies available to us against the originating broker or correspondent may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans against us, and we face the further risk that the originating broker or correspondent may not have the financial capacity to perform remedies that otherwise may be available to us. Therefore, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to recover our losses from the originating broker or correspondent. Recently, we have received an increased number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers as a result of borrower fraud. This increase in repurchase demands, combined with an increase in expected loss severity on repurchased loans due to deteriorating real estate values and liquidity for impaired loans, has resulted in a significant increase in the amount of accrued losses for repurchases as of December 31, 2008. While we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, there can be no assurance that these steps will be effective or reduce risk associated with loans sold in the past. If repurchase and indemnity demands increase, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected.  Clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing us to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding.  Checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing superior expected returns. When clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding costs.  Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income.  Technology and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions without banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. This process could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of client deposits and the income generated from those deposits.    9    Table of Contents We have businesses other than banking which subject us to a variety of risks.  We are a diversified financial services company. This diversity subjects earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties.  Hurricanes and other natural disasters may adversely affect loan portfolios and operations and increase the cost of doing business.  Large scale natural disasters may significantly affect loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral and by impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans. The nature and level of natural disasters cannot be predicted and may be exacerbated by global climate change. The ultimate impact of a natural disaster on future financial results is difficult to predict and will be affected by a number of factors, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent to which damaged collateral is not covered by insurance, the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by the natural disaster adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, and the cost of collection and foreclosure moratoriums, loan forbearances and other accommodations granted to borrowers and other clients.  Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues.  As a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our clients’ expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract and/or retain clients and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to its access to unsecured wholesale borrowings. Significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding.  We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.  Third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as banking services, processing, and Internet connections and network access. Any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. Technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. We may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. Failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business.  We rely on our systems, employees, and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely affect our operations.  We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and record-keeping errors, and computer/telecommunications systems malfunctions. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including relating to break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in a diminished ability of us to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect us.  We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages or natural disasters, or events arising from local or regional politics, including terrorist acts. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to clients and loss or liability to us. In addition there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance.  We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties.  In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors.    10    Table of Contents Industry Risks  Regulation by federal and state agencies could adversely affect the business, revenue, and profit margins.  We are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies. This regulation is to protect depositors, the federal deposit insurance fund and the banking system as a whole. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us adversely, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. Also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could receive regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation.  Competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in losing business or reducing margins.  We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation. We face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. The ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. This may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. As a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability.  Future legislation could harm our competitive position.  Federal, state, and local legislatures increasingly have been considering proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system and to expand or contract the powers of banking institutions and bank holding companies. Various legislative bodies have also recently been considering altering the existing framework governing creditors’ rights, including legislation that would result in or allow loan modifications of various sorts. Such legislation may change banking statutes and the operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our activities, financial condition, or results of operations.  Maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services.  Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or development in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases.  We may not pay dividends on your common stock.  Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Also, our ability to increase our dividend or to make other distributions is restricted due to our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, which limits (without the consent of the Treasury) our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding.  Our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries accounts for most of our revenue and could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends.  We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including SunTrust Bank. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay us. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors.    11    Table of Contents Limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on common stock. Additionally, if our subsidiaries’ earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common stockholders.  Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities.  We are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. We may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  Company Risks  Recently declining values of real estate, increases in unemployment, and the related effects on local economies may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results.  We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. A major change in the real estate market, such as deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our customer’s ability to pay these loans, which in turn could adversely impact us. Additionally, increases in unemployment also may adversely affect the ability of certain clients to pay loans and the financial results of commercial clients in localities with higher unemployment, which may result in loan defaults and foreclosures and which may impair the value of our collateral. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur or increase in the future.  Deteriorating credit quality, particularly in real estate loans, has adversely impacted us and may continue to adversely impact us.  We have experienced a downturn in credit performance, which became significant in the third and fourth quarters of 2007 and continues. We expect credit conditions and the performance of our loan portfolio to continue to deteriorate in the near term.  This deterioration has resulted in an increase in our loan loss reserves throughout 2008, which increases were driven primarily by residential and commercial real estate and home equity portfolios. Additional increases in loan loss reserves may be necessary in the future. Deterioration in the quality of our credit portfolio can have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition, and results of operations.  Disruptions in our ability to access global capital markets may negatively affect our capital resources and liquidity.  In managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients. Other sources of funding available to us, and upon which we rely as regular components of our liquidity risk management strategy, include inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements, and borrowings from the Federal Reserve discount window. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, our depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity.  Any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets.  Although our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies, the ratings of that debt was downgraded during 2009 by one of the major rating agencies. These rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. In light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the housing and financial markets, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. Our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital.  We have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits.  We have historically pursued an acquisition strategy, and intend to continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected.    12    Table of Contents Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. We may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired company. As a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, and results of operations.  Furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bank holding company. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution’s record of compliance under the Community Reinvestment Act, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. In addition, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. Consequently, we might be required to sell portions of the acquired institution as a condition to receiving regulatory approval or we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the acquisition despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it.  We depend on the expertise of key personnel. If these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer.  The success of our business has been, and the continuing success will be, dependent to a large degree on the continued services of executive officers, especially our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, James M. Wells III, and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the industry. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of the executive officers or other key personnel. If we lose the services of any of these integral personnel and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, the business could be impacted.  We may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategy.  Our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. We face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. Our ability to execute the business strategy and provide high quality service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially.  Our accounting policies and processes are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain.  Accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how we record and report the financial condition and results of operations. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and processes so they comply with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”).  Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management’s judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments, and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or reducing a liability. We have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. See the “Critical Accounting Policies” in the MD&A and Note 1, “Accounting Policies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 for more information.  Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition.  From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements.  Our stock price can be volatile.  Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including:      •    variations in our quarterly operating results;      •    changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry;    13    Table of Contents     •    governmental and regulatory legislation or actions      •    issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future;      •    changes in dividends;      •    the addition or departure of key personnel;      •    cyclical fluctuations;      •    changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or shares of our common stock;      •    announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures; and      •    activity by short sellers and changing government restrictions on such activity.  General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results.  Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.  Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accurately accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.  These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.  Our financial instruments carried at fair value expose us to certain market risks.  We maintain an available for sale securities portfolio and trading assets which include various types of instruments and maturities. In addition, we elected to record selected fixed-rate debt, mortgage loans, securitization warehouses and other trading assets at fair value. The changes in fair value of the financial instruments elected to be carried at fair value pursuant to the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 159 are recognized in earnings. The financial instruments carried at fair value are exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates, market liquidity, and our market-based credit spreads, as well as to the risk of default by specific borrowers. We manage the market risks associated with these instruments through active hedging arrangements or broader asset/liability management strategies. Changes in the market values of these financial instruments could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We may classify additional financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value in the future.  Our revenues derived from our investment securities may be volatile and subject to a variety of risks.   We generally maintain investment securities and trading positions in the fixed income, currency, commodity, and equity markets. Unrealized gains and losses associated with our investment portfolio and mark to market gains and losses associated with our trading portfolio are affected by many factors, including our credit position, interest rate volatility, volatility in capital markets, and other economic factors. Our return on such investments and trading have in the past experienced, and will likely in the future experience, volatility and such volatility may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, accounting regulations may require us to record a charge prior to the actual realization of a loss when market valuations of such securities are impaired and such impairment is considered to be other than temporary.  We may enter into transactions with off-balance sheet affiliates or our subsidiaries.  We engage in a variety of transactions with off-balance sheet entities with which we are affiliated. While we have no obligation, contractual or otherwise, to do so, under certain limited circumstances, these transactions may involve providing some form of financial support to these entities. Any such actions may cause us to recognize current or future gains or losses. Depending on the nature and magnitude of any transaction we enter into with off-balance sheet entities, accounting rules may require us to consolidate the financial results of these entities with our financial results.  We are subject to market risk associated with our asset management and commercial paper conduit businesses.  During 2007 and 2008, we recorded market valuation losses related to securities that we purchased from certain money market funds managed by our subsidiary RidgeWorth as well as Three Pillars Funding, LLC (“Three Pillars”), a multi-seller commercial paper conduit sponsored by us. At the time of purchase, these securities were predominantly AAA or AA-rated, residential MBS, structured investment vehicle (“SIVs”) securities, and corporate and consumer collateralized debt obligations. We cannot provide assurance that we will not sustain additional losses in the future related to these securities or     14    Table of Contents  the purchase of similar securities. The value of such securities may be affected by, among other things, a lack of liquidity in the market for these securities, deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying collateral, risks associated with the financial guarantees insuring the securities, and/or the fact that the respective investment vehicle enters restructuring proceedings. Such occurrences may materially adversely affect our financial condition, capital adequacy, and results of operations.      Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS