Item 1A.Risk Factors. Volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy, may significantly affect our results of operations and may put pressure on our financial results. The capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility and disruption worldwide. Declines in global financial market conditions have in the past resulted in significant decreases in our assets under management (“AUM”), revenues and income, and future declines may negatively impact our performance. Such declines have had and may in the future have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We may need to modify our business, strategies or operations and we may be subject to additional constraints or costs in order to compete in a changing global economy and business environment.The amount and mix of our AUM are subject to significant fluctuations. Fluctuations in the amount and mix of our AUM may be attributable in part to market conditions outside of our control that have had, and in the future could have, a negative impact on our revenues and income. We derive our operating revenues and net income from providing investment management and related services. The level of our revenues depends largely on the level and mix of AUM. Our investment management fee revenues are primarily based on a percentage of the value of AUM and vary with the nature of the account or product managed. Any decrease in the value or amount of our AUM because of market volatility or other factors, such as a decline in the price of stocks, in particular market segments or in the securities market generally, negatively impacts our revenues and income. We are subject to an increased risk of asset volatility from changes in the global financial, equity and debt markets. Individual financial, equity and debt markets may be adversely affected by economic, political, financial or other instabilities that are particular to the country or region in which a market is located, including without limitation local acts of terrorism, economic crises, political protests, insurrection or other business, social or political crises. Global economic conditions, exacerbated by war, terrorism, natural disasters or financial crises, changes in the equity or debt marketplaces, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve, defaults by derivative counterparties, bond default risks, the sovereign debt crisis in Europe and other factors that are difficult to predict affect the mix, market values and levels of our AUM. The funds we manage may be subject to an unanticipated large number of redemptions as a result of such events, causing the funds to sell securities they hold, possibly at a loss, or draw on any available lines of credit to obtain cash to settle these redemptions, or settle in-kind with securities held in the applicable fund. We may also, in our discretion, provide financial  22Table of Contentssupport to a fund to enable it to maintain sufficient liquidity in such event. Moreover, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and U.S. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenues and income depending upon the nature of our AUM and the level of management fees we earn based on our AUM. We generally derive higher investment management and distribution fees from our international products than from our U.S. products, and higher sales fees from our U.S. products than from our international products. Additionally, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix towards fixed-income products and a related decline in our revenues and income, as we generally derive higher fee revenues and income from equity products than from fixed-income products we manage. On the other hand, increases in interest rates, in particular if rapid, or high interest rates, as well as any uncertainty in the future direction of interest rates, may have a negative impact on our fixed-income products as rising interest rates or interest rate uncertainty typically decrease the total return on many bond investments due to lower market valuations of existing bonds. Any decrease in the level of our AUM resulting from market declines, interest rate volatility or uncertainty, increased redemptions or other factors could negatively impact our revenues and income. We are subject to extensive and complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations. There is uncertainty associated with the regulatory environment in which we operate. Our business is subject to extensive and complex, overlapping and/or conflicting, and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations in the countries in which we operate, including, among others, securities, banking, accounting, tax, compensation, ethics and privacy laws and regulations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), as well as other legislative and regulatory changes, impose additional restrictions and limitations on us and will likely result in increased scrutiny and oversight of our financial services and products as the various rules and regulations required for implementation continue to be adopted. Due to the complexity and broad scope of the Dodd-Frank Act and the time required for regulatory implementation, we are not able to predict at this time all of the specific requirements that will be adopted by regulatory agencies having authority over us pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, or the impact that further changes in regulation would have on our business. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, which imposes a number of new regulations governing over-the-counter swaps and derivative transactions, certain swaps will be required to be submitted for clearing by a regulated clearing organization, and the posting of margin will be required for uncleared swaps. These and other requirements are likely to impact how we manage our investment strategies because of, among other things, an increase in the costs and expenses of utilizing swaps and other derivatives. The so-called “Volcker Rule” provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act restrict the ability of affiliates of insured depository institutions, such as Franklin, to sponsor or invest in private funds or to engage in certain types of proprietary trading. While the Volcker Rule became effective on July 21, 2012, final rules for its implementation have not yet been adopted. On April 19, 2012, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “FRB”) issued a Statement of Policy that confirmed that banking institutions will have two years from the effective date to conform their activities to the requirements of the Volcker Rule. In addition to the rulemaking mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, rules adopted by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) in 2012 removed or limited previously available exemptions and exclusions from registration and regulation as a commodity pool operator and commodity trading advisor on which we had relied, resulting in the imposition of additional registration, disclosure and reporting requirements for operators of certain of our registered mutual funds and other pooled vehicles that use or trade in futures, swaps and other derivatives considered commodity interests and regulated by the CFTC. Further, the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (“FATCA”), which is intended to address tax compliance issues related to U.S. taxpayers holding non-U.S. accounts, will impose customer due diligence, reporting and withholding requirements on certain non-U.S. financial institutions. Full implementation of FATCA and related intergovernmental agreements with foreign governments, which will impact our implementation of FATCA, will be phased in over a multi-year period, and additional guidance is expected over time. Also, the SEC has developed proposals for stricter regulation of money market funds that could significantly change the structure and operations of those funds. We expect that such regulatory requirements and developments will cause us to incur additional administrative and compliance costs.Financial reporting requirements, and the processes, controls and procedures that have been put in place to address them, are often comprehensive and complex. We may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations. While management has focused attention and resources on our compliance policies, procedures and practices, non-compliance with applicable laws or rules or regulations, conflicts of interest requirements or fiduciary principles, or our inability to keep up with, or adapt to, an  23Table of Contentsever changing, complex regulatory environment, could result in civil liability, criminal liability and/or sanctions against us, including fines and censures, injunctive relief, suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses or charters, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues and income. We are subject to U.S. federal securities laws, state laws regarding securities fraud, other federal and state laws and rules and regulations of certain regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, including those rules and regulations promulgated by, among others, the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the New York Stock Exchange. Because of our non-U.S. operations and/or trading in our sponsored investment products (“SIPs”) that take place outside the U.S., we are also subject to regulation by non-U.S. regulators and U.S. regulators such as the Department of Justice and the SEC with respect to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977. Certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and many of our funds are registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act, both of which impose numerous obligations, as well as detailed operational requirements, on our subsidiaries that are investment advisers to registered investment companies. Our subsidiaries must comply with a myriad of complex and changing U.S. and/or non-U.S. rules and regulations, some of which may conflict, as well as complex tax regimes. Additionally, as we continue to expand our operations, sometimes rapidly, into additional non-U.S. jurisdictions, the rules and regulations of these non-U.S. jurisdictions become applicable, sometimes with short compliance deadlines, and add further regulatory complexity to our ongoing global compliance operations. We are also a bank holding company and a financial holding company subject to the supervision and regulation of the FRB and are subject to the restrictions, limitations and prohibitions of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the “BHC Act”) and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. In addition, significant aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act relate to changes in the regulation of banks, thrifts, holding companies and related institutions, including with respect to regulation and supervision in the banking industry, and the imposition of various restrictions and limitations on certain activities of such entities. The Dodd-Frank Act, together with other regulatory initiatives, includes a number of measures that will increase capital and liquidity requirements, impose limits on leverage, and enhance supervisory authority and regulatory oversight of non-banking entities which may apply to our business. In July 2013, the U.S. federal banking agencies adopted new capital rules to implement the Basel Committee's capital framework, known as “Basel III”, for U.S. bank holding companies and banks. Basel III will impose more stringent capital requirements on Franklin and its banking subsidiaries. The new capital rules will become effective for Franklin, Fiduciary Trust Company International (“Fiduciary Trust”) and Franklin Templeton Bank & Trust, F.S.B. (“FTB&T”) on January 1, 2015 (subject to certain phase-in periods through January 1, 2019). The FRB may impose additional limitations or restrictions on our activities, including if the FRB believes that we do not have the appropriate financial and managerial resources to commence or conduct an activity or make an acquisition. Further, our banking subsidiaries Fiduciary Trust and FTB&T are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by their respective banking regulators, which include the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) for both, the New York State Department of Financial Services for Fiduciary Trust, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) for FTB&T. The laws and regulations imposed by our banking regulators generally involve restrictions and requirements in connection with a variety of technical, specialized, and expanding matters and concerns. For example, compliance with anti-money laundering and Know-Your-Customer requirements, both domestically and internationally, and the Bank Secrecy Act has taken on heightened importance with regulators as a result of efforts to, among other things, limit terrorism. At the same time, there has been increased regulation with respect to the protection of customer privacy and the need to secure sensitive customer information. As we continue to address these requirements or focus on meeting new or expanded ones, we may expend a substantial amount of time and resources. Any inability to meet these requirements, within the timeframes set by regulators, may subject us to sanctions or other restrictions by the regulators that could adversely impact our broader business objectives. Moreover, being subject to banking regulation may put us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors which are not subject to such requirements. Regulatory and legislative actions and reforms have made the regulatory environment in which we operate more costly and future actions and reforms could adversely impact our AUM, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and future financial results. Since 2001, the federal securities laws have been augmented substantially and made significantly more complex by, among other measures, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the USA Patriot Act of 2001 and the Dodd-Frank Act. Moreover, the adoption of new laws or regulations and changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations have directly affected, and may continue to affect, our business. With new  24Table of Contentslaws and changes in interpretation of existing requirements, the associated time we must dedicate to, and related costs we must incur in, meeting the regulatory complexities of our business have increased. In particular, many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act still require the adoption of rules to implement the Dodd-Frank Act and mandate multiple studies, which could result in additional legislative or regulatory action. We may be required to invest significant management time and resources to address the various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the numerous regulations that are issued under it. In addition, the SEC has proposed changes to Rule 12b-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act which, if adopted, could limit our ability to recover expenses relating to the distribution of our funds. Outlays associated with meeting regulatory complexities have also increased as we expand our business into new jurisdictions. Compliance activities to meet these and other new legal requirements have required us to expend additional time and resources, and, consequently, we are incurring increased costs of doing business, which potentially negatively impacts our profitability and future financial results. Moreover, any potential accounting or reporting error, whether financial or otherwise, if material, could damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenues and income. Finally, any regulatory and legislative actions and reforms affecting the mutual fund industry, including compliance initiatives, may negatively impact revenues by increasing our costs of accessing or operating in the financial markets or by making certain investment offerings less favorable to our clients. Failure to comply with the laws, rules or regulations in any of the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate could result in substantial harm to our reputation and results of operations. As with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. The regulatory environments of the non-U.S. jurisdictions where we conduct our business or where the funds and products we manage are organized or sold are complex, uncertain and subject to change. Local regulatory environments may vary widely and place additional demands on our sales, legal and compliance personnel. Failure to comply with the applicable laws, rules, regulations, codes, directives, notices or guidelines in any of our non-U.S. jurisdictions could result in a wide range of penalties and disciplinary actions, including fines, censures and the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses, any of which could adversely affect our reputation and operations. In recent years, the non-U.S. regulatory environments in which we operate have seen significant increased and evolving regulation, which has imposed and may continue to impose additional compliance and operational costs on us in the applicable jurisdictions. Regulators in non-U.S. jurisdictions could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to offer our investment products and services in their respective markets, or we may be unable to keep up with, or adapt to, the ever changing, complex regulatory requirements in such jurisdictions or markets, which could further negatively impact our business.Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the U.S. and various non-U.S. jurisdictions and are subject to ongoing tax audits in the U.S. and various non-U.S. jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. corporate tax reform, if enacted, could change the amount of taxes we are required to pay and have a significant impact on our future results of operations, profitability and financial condition.Any significant limitation, failure or security breach of our information and cyber security infrastructure, software applications, technology or other systems that are critical to our operations could constrain our operations. We are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party information and security technology, software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. We are also dependent on the effectiveness of our information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them. We use our technology to, among other things, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions, and provide reports and other customer services to the clients of the funds we manage. Any inaccuracies, delays, systems failures or security breaches in these and other processes could subject us to client dissatisfaction and losses. Although we take protective measures, including measures to effectively secure information through system security technology, our technology systems may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an external hacker attack  25Table of Contentsor an authorized employee or vendor inadvertently causing us to release confidential information, which could materially damage our operations or result in the unauthorized disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information. Breach of our technology systems could result in the loss of valuable information, breach of client contracts, liability for stolen assets, information or identity, remediation costs to repair damage caused by the breach, additional security costs to mitigate against future incidents, regulatory actions and litigation costs resulting from the incident. Moreover, loss or unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer identification information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or a decline in our revenues or common stock price. Further, although we take precautions to password protect and encrypt our laptops and other mobile electronic hardware, if such hardware is stolen, misplaced or left unattended, it may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk and resulting in potentially costly actions by us. Most of the software applications that we use in our business are licensed from, and supported, upgraded and maintained by, third-party vendors. A suspension or termination of certain of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause temporary system delays or interruption. In addition, our failure to properly manage and operate our data centers could have an adverse impact on our business. Although we have in place certain disaster recovery plans, we may experience system delays and interruptions as a result of natural disasters, power failures, acts of war, and third-party failures. Technology is subject to rapid change and we cannot guarantee that our competitors may not implement more advanced technology platforms for their products, which could affect our business. Potential system failures or breaches, or advancements in technology, and the cost necessary to address them, could result in material financial loss or costs, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal claims and liability, which in turn could negatively impact our revenues and income. Our business operations are complex and a failure to properly perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of our products and services, or the termination of investment management agreements representing a significant portion of our AUM, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and income. Through our subsidiaries, we provide investment management and related services to our SIPs, that consist of investment funds and institutional, high net-worth and separately-managed accounts. In addition to investment management, our services include fund administration, sales, distribution, shareholder services, transfer agency, trustee, custodial and other fiduciary services, as well as select private banking services. In order to be competitive and comply with our agreements, we must properly perform our fund and portfolio administration and related responsibilities, including portfolio recordkeeping and accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders. In addition, the intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of our products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications could adversely affect our reputation and business prospects. Our investment management fees, which represent a majority of our revenues, are dependent on fees earned under investment management agreements that we have with the SIPs we advise. Our revenues could be adversely affected if such agreements representing a significant portion of our AUM are terminated or significantly altered. Further, certain of our subsidiaries may act as general partner for various investment partnerships, which may subject them to liability for the partnerships' liabilities. If we fail to properly perform and monitor our operations, our business could suffer and our revenues and income could be adversely affected. We face risks, and corresponding potential costs and expenses, associated with conducting operations and growing our business in numerous countries. We sell mutual funds and offer investment management and related services in many different regulatory jurisdictions around the world, and intend to continue to expand our operations internationally. As we do so, we will continue to face challenges to the adequacy of our resources, procedures and controls to consistently and effectively operate our business. In order to remain competitive, we must be proactive and prepared to implement necessary resources when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. Local regulatory environments may vary widely, as may the adequacy and sophistication of each. Similarly, local distributors, and their policies and practices as well as financial viability, may be inconsistent or less developed or mature. Notwithstanding potential long-term cost savings by increasing certain operations, such as transfer agent and other back-office operations, in countries or regions of the world with lower operating costs, growth of our international operations may involve near-term increases in expenses as well as additional capital costs, such as information systems and technology costs and costs related to compliance with particular regulatory or other local requirements or needs. Local requirements or needs may also place additional  26Table of Contentsdemands on sales and compliance personnel and resources, such as meeting local language requirements, while also integrating personnel into an organization with a single operating language. Finding, hiring and retaining additional, well-qualified personnel and crafting and adopting policies, procedures and controls to address local or regional requirements remain a challenge as we expand our operations internationally. Moreover, regulators in non-U.S. jurisdictions could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to distribute or register investment products in their respective markets. Any of these local requirements, activities, or needs could increase the costs and expenses we incur in a specific jurisdiction without any corresponding increase in revenues and income from operating in the jurisdiction. Recently, certain laws and regulations outside the U.S. have included extraterritorial application. This may lead to duplicative or conflicting legal or regulatory burdens and additional costs and risks. In addition, from time to time we enter into international joint ventures or take minority stakes in companies in which we may not have control. These investments may involve risks, including the risk that the controlling shareholder or joint venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and the risk that business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling shareholder or joint venture partner or the company itself may result in liability for us or harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the company. We depend on key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. The success of our business will continue to depend upon our key personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, investment advisers, sales and management personnel and other professionals as well as our executive officers and business unit heads. Competition for qualified, motivated, and highly skilled executives, professionals and other key personnel in the investment management industry remains significant. Our success depends to a substantial degree upon our ability to find, attract, retain, and motivate qualified individuals, including through competitive compensation packages, and upon the continued contributions of these people. Laws and regulations, including those contained in or relating to the Capital Requirements Directive of the European Union (“EU”), those recently adopted under the EU's Alternative Investment Fund Manager Directive, those required to be adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act and certain regulations proposed under the EU's draft Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities V Directive and Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II, could impose restrictions on compensation paid by financial institutions, which could restrict our ability to compete effectively for qualified professionals. As our business grows, we are likely to need to increase correspondingly the overall number of individuals that we employ. Moreover, in order to retain certain key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation to such individuals, resulting in additional expense without a corresponding increase in potential revenues. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in finding, attracting and retaining qualified individuals, and the departure of key investment personnel, in particular, if not replaced, could cause us to lose clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Strong competition from numerous and sometimes larger companies with competing offerings and products could limit or reduce sales of our products, potentially resulting in a decline in our market share, revenues and income. We compete with numerous investment management companies, securities brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks and other financial institutions. Our investment products also compete with products offered by these competitors as well as real estate investment trusts, hedge funds and others. The periodic establishment of new investment management companies and other competitors increases the competition that we face. At the same time, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own. Competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, product mix and offerings, service quality and innovation, distribution relationships, and fees charged. Additionally, competing securities broker/dealers whom we rely upon to distribute and sell our mutual funds may also sell their own proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our investment products. To the extent that existing or potential clients, including securities broker/dealers, decide to invest in or distribute the products of our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenues and income could decline. Our ability to attract and retain AUM is also dependent on the relative investment performance of our funds and other managed investment portfolios, offering a mix of SIPs that meets investor demand and our ability to maintain our investment management fees and pricing structure at competitive levels. Changes in the third-party distribution and sales channels on which we depend could reduce our income and hinder our growth. We derive nearly all of our fund sales through third-party broker/dealers and other similar investment advisers and financial intermediaries. Increasing competition for these distribution channels and regulatory initiatives  27Table of Contentshave caused our distribution costs to rise and could cause further increases in the future or could otherwise negatively impact the distribution of our products. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC may establish different standards for broker/dealers in their interaction with retail customers, which could have an impact on sales and/or distribution costs. Higher distribution costs lower our income; consolidations in the broker/dealer industry could also adversely impact our income. Moreover, if several of the major financial advisers who distribute our products were to cease operations or limit or otherwise end the distribution of our products, it could have a significant adverse impact on our income. In addition, effective January 2013, the U.K. adopted new retail distribution review rules (“RDR” rules) that, depending on the exact terms of, and market reactions to, the RDR rules and similar regimes that may be adopted by other EU member states, may result in existing flows of business moving to less profitable channels or even to competitors providing substitutable products outside the regime. There is no assurance we will continue to have access to the third-party broker/dealers and similar investment advisers that currently distribute our products, or continue to have the opportunity to offer all or some of our existing products through them. A failure to maintain strong business relationships with the major investment advisers who currently distribute our products may also impair our distribution and sales operations. Because we use broker/dealers and other similar investment advisers to sell our products, we do not control the ultimate investment recommendations given to clients. Any inability to access and successfully sell our products to clients through third-party distribution channels could have a negative effect on our level of AUM, income and overall business and financial condition. Our increasing focus on international markets as a source of investments and sales of investment products subjects us to increased exchange rate and other risks in connection with our revenues and income generated overseas. While we maintain a significant portion of our operations in the U.S., we also provide services and earn revenues in The Bahamas, Asia-Pacific, Europe, Canada, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa. As a result, we are subject to foreign exchange risk through our non-U.S. operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rates to the U.S. dollar may affect our financial results from one period to the next. While we have taken steps to reduce our exposure to foreign exchange risk, for example, by denominating a significant amount of our transactions in U.S. dollars, the situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the U.S. Appreciation of the U.S. dollar could moderate revenues from managing investment products internationally or could affect relative investment performance of certain funds invested in non-U.S. securities. In addition, we have risk associated with the foreign exchange revaluation of U.S. dollar balances held by certain non-U.S. subsidiaries for which the local currency is the functional currency. Separately, management fees that we earn tend to be higher in connection with international AUM than with U.S. AUM. Consequently, a downturn in international markets could have a significant effect on our revenues and income. Moreover, as our business continues to grow in non-U.S. markets, any ongoing and future business, economic, social or political unrest affecting these markets, in addition to any direct consequences such unrest may have on our personnel and facilities located in the affected area, may also have a more lasting impact on the long-term investment climate in these and other areas and, as a result, our AUM and the corresponding revenues and income that we generate from them may be negatively affected. Harm to our reputation or poor investment performance of our products could reduce the level of our AUM or affect our sales, potentially negatively impacting our revenues and income. Our reputation is critical to the success of our business. We believe that our Franklin Templeton Investments brand has been, and continues to be, well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brand, like our business, is based in part on trust and confidence. If our reputation is harmed, existing clients may reduce amounts held in, or withdraw entirely from, funds that we advise or funds may terminate their management agreements with us, which could reduce the amount of AUM and cause us to suffer a corresponding loss in our revenues and income. Our investment performance, along with achieving and maintaining superior distribution and client services, is also critical to the success of our business. Strong investment performance often stimulates sales of our investment products. Poor investment performance as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitive products could lead to a decrease in sales of investment products we manage and stimulate redemptions from existing products, generally lowering the overall level of AUM and reducing the management fees we earn. We cannot assure you that past or present investment performance in the investment products we manage will be indicative of future performance. Any poor investment performance may negatively impact our revenues and income. Reputational harm or poor investment performance may cause us to lose current clients and we may be unable to continue to attract new clients or develop new business. If we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, successfully and promptly the underlying causes of any reputational harm or poor investment performance,  28Table of Contentswe may be unsuccessful in repairing any existing harm to our reputation or performance and our future business prospects would likely be affected. Our future results are dependent upon maintaining an appropriate level of expenses, which is subject to fluctuation. The level of our expenses is subject to fluctuation and may increase for the following or other reasons: changes in the level and scope of our operating expenses in response to market conditions; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, changes in our employee count and mix, and competitive factors; changes in expenses and capital costs, including costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure or to cover uninsured losses, and an increase in insurance expenses including through the assumption of higher deductibles and/or co-insurance liability. Our ability to successfully integrate widely varied business lines can be impeded by systems and other technological limitations. Our continued success in effectively managing and growing our business depends on our ability to integrate the varied accounting, financial, information, and operational systems of our various businesses on a global basis. Moreover, adapting or developing our existing technology systems to meet our internal needs, as well as client needs, industry demands and new regulatory requirements, is also critical for our business. The constant introduction of new technologies presents new challenges to us. We have an ongoing need to continually upgrade and improve our various technology systems, including our data processing, financial, accounting, shareholder servicing and trading systems. Further, we also must be proactive and prepared to implement technology systems when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. These needs could present operational issues or require, from time to time, significant capital spending. It also may require us to reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of our technology systems, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. Should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, tsunami, terrorist attack, pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the safety and availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other systems and operations. While our operational size, the diversity of locations from which we operate, and our redundant back-up systems provide us with a strong advantage should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, we could still experience near-term operational challenges, in particular depending upon how a local or regional event may affect our human capital across our operations or with regard to particular aspects of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel in our technology group. Moreover, as we grow our operations in new geographic regions, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. Past disaster recovery efforts have demonstrated that even seemingly localized events may require broader disaster recovery efforts throughout our operations and, consequently, we regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. However, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. Certain of the portfolios we manage, including our emerging market portfolios, are vulnerable to significant market-specific political, economic or other risks, any of which may negatively impact our revenues and income. Our emerging market portfolios and revenues derived from managing these portfolios are subject to significant risks of loss from political, economic, and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization, asset confiscation and changes in legislation related to non-U.S. ownership. International trading markets, particularly in some emerging market countries, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the U.S. Regulatory and governmental examinations and/or investigations, litigation and the legal risks associated with our business, could adversely impact our AUM, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results. From time to time we may receive requests for documents or other information from governmental authorities or regulatory bodies or we also may become the subject of governmental or regulatory investigations and/ 29Table of Contentsor examinations, and governmental or regulatory investigations and/or examinations that have been inactive could become active. In addition, we may be named in litigation. We may be obligated, and under our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and our standard form of indemnification agreement with certain directors in some instances, we are obligated, or we may choose, to indemnify directors, officers or employees against liabilities and expenses they may incur in connection with such matters to the extent permitted under applicable law. Even if claims made against us are without merit, litigation typically is an expensive process. Risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. Eventual exposures from and expenses incurred relating to any litigation, investigations, examinations and settlements could adversely impact our AUM, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our financial results. Judgments, findings or allegations of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities or in litigation against us or settlements with respect thereto could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our financial results. Our ability to meet cash needs depends upon certain factors, including the market value of our assets, operating cash flows and our perceived creditworthiness. Our ability to meet anticipated cash needs depends upon factors such as the market value of our assets, our operating cash flows and our creditworthiness as perceived by lenders. If we are unable to obtain funds and financing, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plans. Further, our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. A reduction in our long- or short-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. Volatility in the global financing markets may also impact our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so, and have an adverse effect on investors' willingness to purchase our securities, interest rates, credit spreads and the valuation levels of equity markets. If we are unable to obtain funds and financing, or access the capital markets in a timely manner, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plans, and our business could be adversely impacted.Our business could be negatively affected if we or our banking subsidiaries fail to satisfy regulatory and supervisory standards. Franklin and its banking subsidiaries are subject to significant regulation, supervision and examination by their respective banking regulators, which includes minimum regulatory capital standards. Franklin is subject to minimum capital and other regulatory and supervisory standards because it is a bank holding company and financial holding company registered with and supervised by the FRB under the BHC Act, and Franklin’s banking subsidiaries are subject to substantially similar minimum capital rules and to other regulatory and supervisory standards administered by the FDIC and the OCC. Our business could be negatively affected if Franklin or its banking subsidiaries fail to meet these standards. Loss of financial holding company status could require that we either cease activities that are only permissible for us to engage in as a financial holding company or divest our banking subsidiaries if we desire to continue such activities. The banking regulators are authorized (and sometimes required) to impose a wide range of requirements, conditions, and restrictions on banks, thrifts, and bank holding companies that fail to maintain adequate capital levels. The U.S federal banking agencies’ new capital rules implementing the Basel III capital framework in the U.S. will impose more stringent capital requirements on Franklin and its banking subsidiaries. In addition, liquidity needs could affect our banking services, which may be subject to an unanticipated large number of withdrawals as a result of a number of factors, such as changed or unstable economic conditions, adverse trends or events, interest rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, and returns available to clients on alternative investments. Our banking subsidiaries may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity, such as the sale of investment securities and federal funds lines to enable them to meet such withdrawal demands. These secondary sources may not be sufficient to meet liquidity needs. We are dependent on the earnings of our subsidiaries. Substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. As a result, our cash flow and our ability to fund operations are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of earnings, loans or other payments by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to provide us with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. Any payments to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions and are contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings and business considerations. Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions which may limit their ability to transfer funds to their parent companies and/or our ability to repatriate funds to the U.S. Our financial condition could be adversely affected if certain of our subsidiaries are unable to distribute funds to us. 30Table of ContentsItem 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments.