Item 1A. Risk Factors  Risks related to the current global recession  Our Annual Report on Form 10-K (the “Form 10-K”) contains a number of risk factors relating to economic conditions generally and the current global recession specifically. These include, among other things, the possible adverse affect on amount spent on healthcare, which could result in a decrease in the demand for our products and services, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Recently, the current economic conditions have impacted our customers in certain areas of our business, in particular, our Biosciences business in the United States, which has been affected by a slowdown in research-related capital spending. Additional information regarding our financial results is contained in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”.  In addition, the economic downturn may adversely affect our suppliers, such as certain resin suppliers that do substantial business with the automotive industry, which could cause disruptions in our ability to produce our products and have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. For instance, Lyondell Chemical Company and certain affiliated entities (collectively, “Lyondell”) filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Lyondell supplies BD with medical grade resins used to manufacture products in our Medical and Diagnostics segments. In addition, Milacron Inc., a supplier of molding presses, Smurfit-Stone Container Corp., a supplier of packaging materials, and Pliant Corporation, a supplier of packaging, have also filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11. To date, BD has not experienced any interruption in the supply from any of these suppliers, although there can be no assurances that BD will not experience any interruptions in supply in the future.  Risks associated with potential pandemics  As stated in our Form 10-K, natural disasters and pandemics, and actions taken by the United States and other governments in response to such events, could cause significant economic disruption and political and social instability in the U.S. and in areas outside of the U.S. in which we operate. Recently, the World Health Organization warned of a possible pandemic resulting from a new strain of flu. If a pandemic develops, it could, depending on its severity, adversely affect our manufacturing and distribution capabilities, or increase the costs for or cause interruptions in the supply of materials from our suppliers. We have developed contingency plans in an attempt to minimize the effects of a pandemic on our operations. Our contingency planning is also intended to increase our ability to respond to sudden and significant increases in demand for some of our vaccination syringes and other products that would be expected to occur in the event of a pandemic or severe epidemic, although it may not be possible to avoid product shortages and backlogs in such circumstances.  33    Table of Contents     Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds