Item 1A. Risk Factors   Chevron is a major fully integrated petroleum company with a diversified business portfolio, strong balance sheet, and a history of generating sufficient cash to fund capital and exploratory expenditures and to pay dividends. Nevertheless, some inherent risks could materially impact the company’s financial results of operations or financial condition.   Chevron is exposed to the effects of changing commodity prices.   Chevron is primarily in a commodities business with a history of price volatility. The single largest variable that affects the company’s results of operations is crude oil prices. Except in the ordinary course of running an integrated petroleum business, Chevron does not seek to hedge its exposure to price changes. A significant, persistent decline in crude oil prices may have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and its capital and exploratory expenditure plans.   The scope of Chevron’s business will decline if the company does not successfully develop resources.   The company is in an extractive business; therefore, if Chevron is not successful in replacing the crude oil and natural gas it produces with good prospects for future production, the company’s business will decline. Creating and maintaining an inventory of projects depends on many factors, including obtaining rights to explore, develop and produce hydrocarbons in promising areas, drilling success, ability to bring long lead-time, capital intensive projects to completion on budget and schedule, and efficient and profitable operation of mature properties.   The company’s operations could be disrupted by natural or human factors.   Chevron operates in both urban areas and remote and sometimes inhospitable regions. The company’s operations and facilities are therefore subject to disruption from either natural or human causes, including hurricanes, earthquakes,  31   Table of Contents  floods and other forms of severe weather, war, civil unrest and other political events, fires and explosions, any of which could result in suspension of operations, or harm to people or the natural environment.   Chevron’s business subjects the company to liability risks.   The company produces, transports, refines and markets materials with potential toxicity, and it purchases, handles and disposes of other potentially toxic materials in the course of the company’s business. Chevron operations also produce byproducts, which may be considered pollutants. Any of these activities could result in liability, either as a result of an accidental, unlawful discharge or as a result of new conclusions on the effects of the company’s operations on human health or the environment.   Political instability could harm Chevron’s business.   The company’s operations, particularly exploration and production, can be affected by changing economic, regulatory and political environments in the various countries in which it operates. As has occurred in the past, actions could be taken by host governments to increase public ownership of the company’s partially- or wholly owned businesses, and/or to impose additional taxes or royalties.   In certain locations, host governments have imposed restrictions, controls and taxes, and in others, political conditions have existed that may threaten the safety of employees and the company’s continued presence in those countries. Internal unrest, acts of violence or strained relations between a host government and the company or other governments may affect the company’s operations. Those developments have, at times, significantly affected the company’s related operations and results, and are carefully considered by management when evaluating the level of current and future activity in such countries. At December 31, 2005, approximately 23 percent of the company’s proved reserves were located in Kazakhstan. The company also has significant interests in Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)-member countries including Indonesia, Nigeria and Venezuela. Approximately 22 percent of the company’s net proved reserves, including affiliates, were located in OPEC countries at December 31, 2005.       Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments