ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  Please refer to the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, and as noted above in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-Q. For the nine months ended September 30, 2013, Apache notes the following updated risk factor:  A deterioration of conditions in Egypt or changes in the economic and political environment in Egypt could have an adverse impact on our business.  In February 2011, the former Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak stepped down, and the Egyptian Supreme Council of the Armed Forces took power, announcing that it would remain in power until the presidential and parliamentary elections could be held. In June 2012, President Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party was elected as Egypt’s new president, and in December 2012 the people of Egypt ratified a new constitution. In July 2013, the Egyptian military removed President Morsi from power and installed Egypt’s Chief Justice, Adly Mansour, as acting president of a temporary government, which is seeking to set a schedule for new parliamentary and presidential elections in 2014. Deterioration in the political, economic, and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Egyptian government, such as changes in laws or regulations, export restrictions, expropriation of our assets or resource nationalization, and/or forced renegotiation or modification of our existing contracts with EGPC could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our operations in Egypt contributed 19 percent of our production for the nine months ended September 30, 2013, 20 percent of our 2012 production, and accounted for 10 percent of our year-end estimated proved reserves. At year-end 2012, 17 percent of our estimated discounted future net cash flows and 7 percent of our net capitalized oil and gas property was attributable to Egypt.    46      ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS