Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. Catastrophe losses could materially reduce our profitability and adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance. Our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather and fires. Catastrophes can also be man-made, such as a terrorist attack (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events) or a consequence of war or political instability. The geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposure from hurricanes in the Northeast, Florida, Gulf Coast and Mid-Atlantic regions, as well as catastrophe exposure from earthquakes in California and the New Madrid and Pacific Northwest regions. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. Over the last several years, changing climate conditions have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters in certain parts of the world and created additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. It is possible that both the frequency and severity of natural and man-made catastrophic events will increase. In particular, we expect that the trend of increased severity and frequency of storms experienced in 2005 and 2004, although not evident in 2006, may continue in the foreseeable future. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. States have from time to time passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas. In addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative initiatives and court decisions which seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies. Also, our ability to increase pricing to the extent necessary to offset rising costs of catastrophes, particularly in the Personal Insurance segment, requires approval of regulatory authorities of certain states. Our ability or our willingness to raise pricing, modify underwriting terms or reduce exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment and/or social responsibilities. We also may choose to write business we might not otherwise write for strategic purposes, such as improving our access to other underwriting opportunities. There are also risks which impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. For example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability by us and our insureds to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. Complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; the impact of demand surge; infrastructure disruption; fraud; the effect of mold damage and business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectibility. The timing of a catastrophe’s occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating reserves for that reporting period. The estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge. Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year and may materially harm our financial condition, which in turn could adversely affect our financial strength and claims-paying ratings and could impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. Also, rating agencies may further increase their capital requirements, which may require us to raise capital to maintain our ratings or adversely affect our ratings. In addition, catastrophic events could cause us to exhaust our available reinsurance limits and could adversely impact the cost and availability of reinsurance. For our exposure to catastrophe losses from acts of terrorism, we have limited terrorism coverage in our reinsurance program, and although the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 provides  46    benefits in the event of certain acts of terrorism, it may not be extended beyond 2007 or its benefits may be reduced. Given the unpredictable frequency and severity of terrorism losses, as well as the limited terrorism coverage in our own reinsurance program, future losses from acts of terrorism, particularly those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity in future periods, particularly if the Terrorism Act is not extended. If actual claims exceed our loss reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of loss reserves are necessary, our financial results could be significantly and adversely affected. Claim and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent management’s estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. These loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on our assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. In establishing reserves, we also take into account estimated recoveries from reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. Loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). We continually refine our loss reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. Informed judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application, on a consistent basis over time, of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. Different experts may choose different assumptions when faced with material uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. Hence, such experts may at times produce estimates materially different from each other. Experts providing input to the various estimates and underlying assumptions include actuaries, underwriters, claim personnel and lawyers, as well as other Company management. Therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of loss reserves. We rigorously attempt to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are established. Due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates including but not limited to the future settlement environment, final resolution of the estimated liability will be different from that anticipated at the reporting date. Therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than currently reserved—favorable or unfavorable. Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition in future periods. For a discussion of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line, including examples of common factors that can affect required reserves, see “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis  47    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Estimates—Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves.” Our business could be harmed because of our potential exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. Asbestos Claims. We believe that the property and casualty insurance industry has suffered from court decisions and other trends that have attempted to expand insurance coverage for asbestos claims far beyond the intent of insurers and policyholders. While we have experienced a decrease in asbestos claims over the past two years, we continue to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from our policyholders (which includes others seeking coverage under a policy), including claims against our policyholders by individuals who do not appear to be impaired by asbestos exposure. Factors underlying these claim filings include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants, the focus by plaintiffs on new and previously peripheral defendants and entities seeking bankruptcy protection as a result of asbestos-related liabilities. In addition to contributing to the overall number of claims, bankruptcy proceedings may increase the volatility of asbestos-related losses by initially delaying the reporting of claims and later by significantly accelerating and increasing loss payments by insurers, including us. Bankruptcy proceedings have also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but that remain in the tort system. Recently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation have their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. This trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on new and previously peripheral defendants, contributes to the loss and loss expense payments experienced by us. In addition, our asbestos-related loss and loss expense experience is impacted by the exhaustion or unavailability due to insolvency of other insurance potentially available to policyholders along with the insolvency or bankruptcy of other defendants. We continue to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, including, among others, ACandS, Inc., who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos-related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. (See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings”). In these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. It is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. To the extent both issues are resolved in policyholders’ favor and our other defenses are not successful, our coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per-occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. Accordingly, although we have seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. Many coverage disputes with policyholders are only resolved through settlement agreements. Because many policyholders make exaggerated demands, it is difficult to predict the outcome of settlement negotiations. Settlements involving bankrupt policyholders may include extensive releases which are favorable to us but which could result in settlements for larger amounts than originally anticipated. There also may be instances where a court may not approve a proposed settlement, which may result in additional litigation and potentially less beneficial outcomes for us. As in the past, we will continue to pursue settlement opportunities. In addition, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including us, challenging insurers’ conduct in respect of asbestos claims, and claims by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos-related bodily injuries. Other direct actions against insurers, including us, could be filed in the future. It is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. 48    Environmental Claims. We continue to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. Mostly, these claims are due to various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. For instance, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. This federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. Liability under CERCLA may be joint and several with other responsible parties. We have been, and continue to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. We believe that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. These decisions often pertain to insurance policies that were issued by us prior to the mid-1970s. These decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Environmental claims when submitted rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the policyholder, and we do not keep track of the monetary amount being sought in those few claims which indicate a monetary amount. Asbestos and Environmental Claims. As a result of the processes and procedures described in “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” management believes that the reserves carried for asbestos and environmental claims at December 31, 2006 are appropriately established based upon known facts, current law and management’s judgment. However, the uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these claims continue, and it is difficult to determine the ultimate exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. As a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. The continuing uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation, any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants, a further increase or decrease in asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated, the role of any umbrella or excess policies we have issued, the resolution or adjudication of some disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with our previous assessment of these claims, the number and outcome of direct actions against us and future developments pertaining to our ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims. In addition, our asbestos-related claims and claim adjustment expense experience has been impacted by the exhaustion or unavailability due to insolvency of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders along with the insolvency or bankruptcy of other defendants, although we have noted a recent decrease in the number and volatility of asbestos-related bankruptcies. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. This development will be affected by future court decisions and interpretations, as well as changes in applicable legislation, including legislation related to asbestos reform. It is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of large coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. This is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. As part of its continuing analysis of asbestos reserves, which includes an annual review of asbestos policyholders, we continue to study the implications of these and other developments. We completed our most recent annual review during the third quarter of 2006. See the “Asbestos Claims and Litigation” and “Environmental Claims and Litigation” sections of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Also see “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” A portion of our loss reserves are for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation which aggregated $4.47 billion at December 31, 2006. While the ongoing study of asbestos and environmental  49    claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs’ expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, in the opinion of our management, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could be material to our operating results in future periods. See “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asbestos Claims and Litigation” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Environmental Claims and Litigation.” We are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. In addition to asbestos and environmental pollution, we face exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, including lead paint, silica and welding rod fumes. Establishing claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. Moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, impede our ability to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. Examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include: · adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures in medical costs and auto and home repair costs; · judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability; · a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claim-handling and other practices; · increases in the number and size of claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; · increases in the number and size of claims related to expenses for testing and remediation of mold conditions; and · claims from directors’ and officers’ insurance relating to possible accounting irregularities, corporate governance issues and stock option “backdating,” “spring-loading” and other option grant practices. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. 50    Reinsurance may not protect us against losses. We use reinsurance to help manage our exposure to property and casualty risks. The availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity, which can affect our business volume and profitability. Although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. Accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. In addition, some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. This is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. Reinsurance may not protect us against losses and may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all. The insurance industry is the subject of a number of investigations by state and federal authorities in the United States. We cannot predict the outcome of these investigations or the impact on our business or financial results. As part of ongoing, industry-wide investigations, we and our affiliates have received subpoenas and written requests for information from government agencies and authorities, including from the Attorneys General of numerous states, various states’ insurance and business regulators and the Securities and Exchange Commission. The areas of pending inquiry addressed to us include our relationship with brokers and agents and our involvement with “non-traditional” insurance and reinsurance products. We and our affiliates may receive additional subpoenas and requests for information with respect to these or other areas from government agencies or authorities. We are cooperating with these subpoenas and requests for information. For further information, see “Item 3—Legal Proceedings”. It would be premature to reach any conclusions as to the likely outcome of these matters or the impact on our business or financial results. Potential outcomes could include enforcement proceedings or settlements resulting in fines, penalties and/or changes in business practices that could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, these investigations may result in changes in laws and regulations affecting the industry in general which could, in turn, also adversely affect our results of operations. Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. We are extensively regulated and supervised in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business, including licensing and supervision by government regulatory agencies in such jurisdictions. This regulatory system is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. This regulatory system also addresses authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer’s business. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. In addition, Congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current condition of insurance regulation in the United States to determine whether to impose federal or national regulation or to allow an optional federal charter, similar to the option available to most banks. We cannot predict with certainty the effect any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives may have on the conduct of our business. Insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current requirements or may result in higher costs. Although the United States federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business, changes in federal legislation, regulation and/or administrative policies in several areas, including changes  51    in financial services regulation (e.g. the repeal of the McCarran-Ferguson Act) and federal taxation, can significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. A downgrade in our claims-paying and financial strength ratings could significantly reduce our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. Claims-paying and financial strength ratings have become increasingly important to an insurer’s competitive position. Rating agencies review their ratings periodically, and our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. A downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes, because demand for certain of our products in certain markets may be reduced or our ratings could fall below minimum levels required to maintain existing business. Additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and higher borrowing costs may be incurred. If our capital position were to deteriorate or one or more rating agencies were to substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. For example, the frequency or severity of weather-related catastrophes in the last two years may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. The ratings are not in any way a measure of protection offered to investors in our securities and should not be relied upon with respect to making an investment in our securities. For further discussion about our ratings, see, “Item 1—Business—Ratings”. Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses which could reduce our profitability. Investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. Accordingly, fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could impair our profitability. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, fixed income and short-term investments, which comprised approximately 94% of the market value of our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2006. In addition, defaults by third parties, primarily from investments in liquid corporate and municipal bonds, who fail to pay or perform on their obligations could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses. We invest a portion of our assets in equity and real estate related investments, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed income investments. General economic conditions, stock market conditions and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our equity and real estate related investments and the realization of net investment income. As a result of these factors, we may not realize an adequate return on our investments, may incur losses on sales of our investments and may be required to write down the value of our investments, which would adversely affect our profitability. The intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability and premium volume. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive in the foreseeable future. We compete with both domestic and foreign insurers, some of which have greater financial resources than we do. In addition, several property and casualty insurers writing commercial lines of business now offer products for alternative forms of risk protection, including large deductible programs and various forms of self-insurance that utilize captive insurance companies and risk retention groups. Continued growth in alternative forms of risk protection could reduce our premium volume. Following the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001 and again following the hurricane activity in 2004 and 2005, a number of new insurers and reinsurers were formed to compete in the industry, and a number of existing market participants have raised new capital which may enhance their ability to compete. Our competitive position is based on many factors, including: · our perceived overall financial strength, · ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, · geographic scope of business, 52    · agent, broker and client relationships, · premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs), · speed of claims payment, · reputation, experience and qualifications of employees, · local presence and · our ability to keep pace relative to competitors with changes in technology and information systems. We may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. If competition limits our ability to write new business at adequate rates, our results of operations will be adversely affected. See “Item 1—Business—Competition.” The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations and to pay future dividends. We are a holding company and rely in part on dividends from our insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in the future will depend on their statutory surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. We and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by some states as an insurance holding company system. This regulation generally provides that transactions among companies within the holding company system must be fair and reasonable. Transfers of assets among affiliated companies, certain dividend payments from insurance subsidiaries and certain material transactions between companies within the system may require prior notice to, or prior approval by, state regulatory authorities. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us also is restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, the nature of and limitation on investments, the nature of and limitations on dividends to policyholders and shareholders, the nature and extent of required participation in insurance guaranty funds and the involuntary assumption of hard-to-place or high-risk insurance business, primarily in workers’ compensation insurance lines. The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations and to pay future dividends. Assessments and other surcharges for guaranty funds, second-injury funds, catastrophe funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements may reduce our profitability. Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in their state to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some insureds as the result of impaired or insolvent insurance companies. Guaranty fund assessments have leveled off in the recent year and, in certain states, have begun to decrease. These assessments may, however, increase in the future if additional insolvencies occur. Many states also have laws that established second-injury funds to provide compensation to injured employees for aggravation of a prior condition or injury which are funded by either assessments based on paid losses or premium surcharge mechanisms. In addition, as a condition to the ability to conduct business in various states, our insurance subsidiaries must participate in mandatory property and casualty shared-market mechanisms or pooling arrangements, which provide various types of insurance coverage to individuals or other entities that otherwise are unable to purchase that coverage from private insurers. The effect of these assessments and mandatory shared-market mechanisms or changes in them could adversely affect profitability or limit our ability to grow our business. Loss or significant restriction of the use of credit scoring in the pricing and underwriting of Personal Insurance products could reduce our future profitability. In Personal Insurance, we use credit scoring as a factor in pricing decisions where allowed by state law. Some consumer groups and regulators have  53    questioned whether the use of credit scoring unfairly discriminates against people with low incomes, minority groups and the elderly and are calling for the prohibition or restriction on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. Laws or regulations that significantly curtail the use of credit scoring, if enacted in a large number of states, could adversely affect our future profitability. Disruptions to our relationships with our distributors, independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us. We market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. An important part of our business is written through fewer than a dozen such intermediaries. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could adversely affect our future business volume and profitability. We discontinued paying contingent commissions on excess casualty and umbrella business effective September 30, 2006. In addition, we discontinued paying contingent commissions for homeowners multi-peril, private passenger automobile physical damage, private passenger automobile no-fault, other private passenger automobile liability, boiler and machinery and financial guaranty insurance lines effective January 1, 2007. We have developed alternative compensation arrangements for these lines of business that compensate our brokers and agents in a manner that differentiates for business performance and is consistent with all applicable laws. Should these alternative compensation arrangements not be accepted in the marketplace, the resulting loss of business could adversely affect our future business volume and profitability. We increasingly rely on internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain of its products through independent agents and brokers. In addition, in some instances, those agents and brokers are required to access separate business platforms to execute the sale of our respective personal insurance or commercial insurance products. Should internet disruptions occur, or frustration with our business platforms develop among our independent agents and brokers, the loss of business could adversely affect our future business volume and profitability. If we experience difficulties with outsourcing relationships, technology and/or data security our ability to conduct our business might be negatively impacted. We outsource certain technology functions to third parties and may do so increasingly in the future. If we do not effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy, third party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience technological or other problems with a transition, we may not realize productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business. In addition, our ability to receive services from third party providers outside of the United States might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or policies inside or outside of the United States. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. While technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present certain risks. Our business is highly dependent upon our employees’ ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as Internet support and 24-hour call centers, processing new and renewal business, and processing and paying claims. A shut-down of, or inability to, access one or more of our facilities, a power outage, or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. In addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. Computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches. These increased risks and expanding regulatory requirements could expose us to data loss, damages and  54    significant increases in compliance costs. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS