ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOur operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of our common stock or our senior notes which are listed on the NYSE.RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRYDamage to our reputation could damage our businesses.Maintaining our reputation is critical to our attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees. If we fail to deal with, or appear to fail to deal with, various issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could significantly harm our business prospects. These issues include, but are not limited to, any of the risks discussed in this Item 1A, appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money-laundering, privacy, record keeping, sales and trading practices, failure to sell securities we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels, and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity, and market risks inherent in our products. A failure to deliver appropriate standards of service and quality, or a failure or perceived failure to treat customers and clients fairly, can result in customer dissatisfaction, litigation and heightened regulatory scrutiny, all of which can lead to lost revenue, higher operating costs and harm to our reputation. Further, negative publicity regarding us, whether or not true, may also result in harm to our prospects. 15IndexWe are affected by difficult domestic and international macroeconomic conditions that impact the global financial markets. We are engaged in various financial services businesses. As such, we are generally affected by domestic and international macroeconomic and political conditions, including levels of economic output, interest and inflation rates, employment levels, consumer confidence levels, and fiscal and monetary policy. These conditions may directly and indirectly impact a number of factors in the global financial markets that may be detrimental to our operating results, including the levels of trading, investing, and origination activity in the securities markets, security valuations, the absolute and relative level and volatility of interest and currency rates, real estate values, the actual and perceived quality of issuers and borrowers, and the supply of and demand for loans and deposits.   During the last five years we have experienced operating cycles during generally weak and uncertain U.S. and global economic conditions, including lower levels of economic output, artificially maintained levels of historically low interest rates, high rates of unemployment, and significant uncertainty with regards to fiscal and monetary policy both domestically and abroad. These conditions have led to several factors in the global financial markets that have negatively impacted our net revenue and profitability. While select factors indicate signs of improvement, significant uncertainty remains. A period of sustained downturns and/or volatility in the securities markets, further reductions to the general level of short term interest rates, a return to increased dislocations in the credit markets, further reductions in the value of real estate, and other negative market factors may significantly impair our revenues and profitability. We may experience a decline in commission revenue from a lower volume of trades we execute for our clients, a decline in fees from reduced portfolio values of securities managed on behalf of our clients, a reduction in revenue from the number and size of transactions in which we provide underwriting, financial advisory and other services, increased credit provisions and charge-offs, losses sustained from our customers and market participants failure to fulfill their settlement obligations, reduced net interest earnings, and other losses. These periods of reduced revenue and other losses may be accompanied by periods of reduced profitability because certain of our expenses including but not limited to our interest expense on debt, rent, facilities and salary expenses are fixed and, our ability to reduce them over short periods of time is limited.   In August 2011, the credit rating agency Standard & Poor's (“S&P”) lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. from AAA to AA+, while maintaining a negative outlook. The downgrade reflected S&P's view that an August 2011 agreement of U.S. lawmakers regarding the debt ceiling fell short of what would be necessary to stabilize the U.S. government's medium term debt dynamics. The two other major credit rating agencies did not downgrade their previously issued U.S. sovereign credit ratings. We have specific concerns relating to future or further downgrades of the U.S. sovereign credit rating by one or more of the major credit rating agencies that could have material adverse impacts on financial markets and economic conditions in the U.S. and throughout the world and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. Because of the unprecedented nature of any negative credit rating actions with respect to U.S. government obligations, the ultimate impacts on global markets and our business, financial condition and liquidity are unpredictable and may not be immediately apparent.Additionally, the negative impact on economic conditions and global markets from further European Union's (“EU”) sovereign debt matters could adversely affect our business, financial condition and liquidity. Concerns about the EU sovereign debt have caused uncertainty and disruption for financial markets globally, and continued uncertainties loom over the outcome the EU's financial support programs and the possibility that other EU member states may experience similar financial troubles. Our businesses and earnings are affected by the fiscal and other policies adopted by various regulatory authorities of the U.S., non-U.S. governments, and international agencies. The Fed regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Fed policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments. The market impact from such policies can also materially decrease the value of certain of our financial assets, most notably debt securities. Changes in Fed policies are beyond our control and, consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of our operations are difficult to predict. U.S. state and local governments also continue to struggle with budget pressures caused by the recent recession, and concerns regarding municipal issuer credit quality. If these trends continue, investor concerns could potentially reduce the number and size of transactions in which we participate and in turn reduce investment banking revenues. Declines in the real estate market over the past few years, along with high foreclosure rates and prolonged high unemployment rates, resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, in turn caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. 16IndexRJ Bank is particularly affected by domestic economic conditions. Such conditions include: U.S. interest rates, the rate of unemployment, real estate prices, the level of consumer confidence, changes in consumer spending and the number of personal bankruptcies, among others. The deterioration of these conditions can diminish loan demand, lead to an increase in mortgage and other loan delinquencies, affect loan repayment performance and result in higher reserves and net charge-offs, which can adversely affect our earnings.Lack of liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition.Maintaining an appropriate level of liquidity, or the amount of capital that is readily available for investment, spending, or to meet our contractual obligations is essential to our business. Our inability to maintain adequate levels of capital in the form of cash and readily available access to the credit and capital markets could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition. If liquidity from our brokerage or banking operations are inadequate or unavailable, we may be required to scale back or curtail our operations, including limiting our efforts to recruit additional financial advisors, selling assets at prices that may be less favorable to us, and cutting or eliminating the dividends we pay to our shareholders. Some potential conditions that could negatively affect our liquidity include the inability of our subsidiaries to generate cash in the form of dividends from earnings, changes imposed by regulators to our liquidity or capital requirements in our subsidiaries that may prevent the upstream of dividends in the form of cash to the parent company, limited or no accessibility to credit markets for secured and unsecured borrowings within our subsidiaries, diminished access to the capital markets at the parent company, and other commitments or restrictions on capital as a result of adverse legal settlements, judgments, or regulatory sanctions. The availability of outside financing, including access to the credit and capital markets, depends on a variety of factors, such as conditions in the debt and equity markets, the general availability of credit, the volume of securities trading activity, the overall availability of credit to the financial services sector, and our credit ratings. Our cost and availability of funding may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Additionally, lenders may from time to time curtail, or even cease, to provide funding to borrowers as a result of any future concerns about the stability of the markets generally, and the strength of counterparties specifically.If RJF's credit ratings were downgraded, or if rating agencies indicate that a downgrade may occur, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely affected, perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged, and as a result, adversely affect our relationships with clients. Such a reduction in our credit ratings could also adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our incremental borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets, trigger obligations under certain financial agreements, or decrease the number of investors, clients and counterparties willing or permitted to do business with or lend to us, thereby curtailing our business operations and reducing profitability. As such, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional outside financing to fund our operations on favorable terms, or at all. The impact of a credit rating downgrade to a level below investment grade would result in our breaching provisions in certain of our derivative instruments, and may result in a request for immediate payment and/or ongoing overnight collateralization on our derivative instruments in liability positions. Furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our stock. The OCC, the Fed and the FDIC have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the entities they supervise. See Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources,” in this Form 10-K for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk.17IndexWe are exposed to market risk.We are, directly and indirectly, affected by changes in market conditions. Market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. For example, changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest spread, the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and other sources of funding, which in turn impacts our net interest income and earnings. Changes in interest rates could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. In our brokerage operations, a rising interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread. Conversely in those operations, a falling interest rate environment generally results in our earning a smaller net interest spread. If we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate risk, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, derivatives and venture capital and merchant banking investments. Market conditions that change from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices, relative exchange rates, and price deterioration or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of an issuer.In addition, disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets may result in our inability to sell, syndicate or realize the value of security positions, thereby leading to increased concentrations. The inability to reduce our positions in specific securities may not only increase the market and credit risks associated with such positions, but also increase the level of risk-weighted assets on our balance sheet, thereby increasing capital requirements which could adversely affect our profitability.Our venture capital and merchant banking investments are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings. The value of our private equity portfolios can fluctuate and earnings from our venture capital investments can be volatile and difficult to predict. When, and if, we recognize gains can depend on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, when these companies go public, the size of our position relative to the public float and whether we are subject to any resale restrictions. Further, our investments could incur significant mark-to-market losses, especially if they have been written up in prior periods because of higher market prices. See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” in this Form 10-K for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing market risk.We are exposed to credit risk.We are generally exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets do not meet their performance obligations due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. We actively buy and sell securities from and to clients and counterparties in the normal course of our broker-dealer businesses exposing us to credit risk. Although generally collateralized by the underlying security to the transaction, we still face the risk associated with changes in the market value of collateral through settlement date. We also hold certain securities and derivatives in our trading accounts. Deterioration in the actual or perceived credit quality of the underlying issuers of securities, or the non-performance of issuers and counterparties to certain derivative contracts could result in trading losses.  We borrow securities from and lend securities to other broker-dealers, and may also enter into agreements to repurchase and agreements to resell securities as part of investing and financing activities. A sharp change in the security market values utilized in these transactions may result in losses if counterparties to these transactions fail to honor their commitments.We manage the risk associated with these transactions by establishing and monitoring credit limits and by monitoring collateral and transaction levels daily. A significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of our counterparties could lead to concerns in the market about the credit quality of other counterparties in the same industry, thereby exacerbating our credit risk exposure. We may require counterparties to deposit additional collateral or substitute collateral pledged. In the case of aged securities failed to receive, we may, under industry regulations, purchase the underlying securities in the market and seek reimbursement for any losses from the counterparty. Also, we permit our clients to purchase securities on margin. During periods of steep declines in securities prices, the value of the collateral securing client margin loans may fall below the amount of the purchaser's indebtedness. If the clients are unable to provide additional collateral for these margin loans, we may incur losses on those margin transactions. This may cause us to incur additional expenses defending or pursuing claims or litigation related to counterparty or client defaults. 18IndexWe deposit our cash in depository institutions as a means of maintaining the liquidity necessary to meet our operating needs, and we also facilitate the deposit of cash awaiting investment in depository institutions on behalf of our clients. A failure of a depository institution to return these deposits could severely impact our operating liquidity, could result in significant reputational damage, and adversely impact our financial performance.We also incur credit risk by lending to businesses and individuals including, but not limited to, C&I loans, commercial and residential mortgage loans, home equity lines of credit, and margin and non-purpose loans collateralized by securities. We incur credit risk through our investments which include mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations, auction rate securities, and other municipal securities.The credit quality of RJ Bank's loans and our investment portfolios can have a significant impact on earnings and overall financial performance. Our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans or investments are concentrated among borrowers or issuers engaged in the same or similar activities, industries, geographies, or to borrowers or issuers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. The deterioration of an individually large exposure, for example due to a natural disaster, act of terrorism, severe weather event, or economic event, could lead to additional loan loss provisions and/or charges-offs, or credit impairment of our investments, and subsequently have a material impact on our net income and regulatory capital. Further declines in the real estate market or sustained economic downturns may cause us to further write down the value of some of the loans in RJ Bank's portfolio, foreclose on certain real estate properties or write down the value of some of our available for sale securities portfolio. Credit quality generally may also be affected by adverse changes in the financial performance or condition of our debtors or deterioration in the strength of the U.S. economy. Our policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans or satisfy their obligations to us. See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” in this Form 10-K for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing credit risk.Our business depends on fees generated from the distribution of financial products and on fees earned from the management of client accounts by our asset management subsidiaries.A large portion of our revenues are derived from fees generated from the distribution of financial products such as mutual funds and variable annuities. Changes in the structure or amount of the fees paid by the sponsors of these products could directly affect our revenues, business and financial condition. In addition, if these products experience losses or increased investor redemptions, we may receive reduced fees from the investment management and distribution services we provide on behalf of the mutual funds and annuities. The investment management fees we are paid may also decline over time due to factors such as increased competition, renegotiation of contracts and the introduction of new, lower-priced investment products and services. Changes in market values or in the fee structure of asset management accounts would affect our revenues, business and financial condition. Asset management fees often are primarily comprised of base management and incentive fees. Management fees are primarily based on assets under management. Assets under management balances are impacted by net inflow/outflow of client assets and market values. Below market investment performance by our funds and portfolio managers could result in a loss of managed accounts and could result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors and thus further impacting our business and financial condition. If we experience losses of managed accounts, our fee revenue will decline. In addition, in periods of declining market values, our asset values under management may resultantly decline, which would negatively impact our fee revenues.Our underwriting, market-making, trading, and other business activities place our capital at risk.We may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities which we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels. As an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. As a market maker, we may own positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if our holdings were more diversified. In addition, we may incur losses as a result of proprietary positions we hold.From time to time and as part of our underwriting processes, we may carry significant positions in securities of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry. Sudden changes in the value of these positions could impact our financial results.19IndexWe have made and may continue to make principal investments in private equity funds and other illiquid investments, which are typically private limited partnership interests and securities that are not publicly traded. There is risk that we may be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale or other disposition at attractive prices or that we may otherwise be unable to complete a desirable exit strategy. In particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions. It could take a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of such investments through resale. Even if a private equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash.The soundness of other financial institutions and intermediaries affects us.We face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate our securities transactions. As a result of the consolidation over the years among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, our exposure to certain financial intermediaries has increased and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives should the need arise. Any failure, termination or constraint of these intermediaries could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk. Our ability to engage in routine trading and funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, funding, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. Furthermore, although we do not hold any EU sovereign debt, we may do business with and be exposed to financial institutions that have been affected by the recent EU sovereign debt crisis. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about the financial condition of, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have historically led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. Although we have not suffered any material or significant losses as a result of the failure of any financial counterparty, any such losses in the future may materially adversely affect our results of operations.We have experienced increased pricing pressures in areas of our business which may impair our future revenue and profitability.In recent years, our business has experienced increased pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in fixed income and equity trading. In the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to increased price competition and decreased trading margins. In the equity market, we have experienced increased pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, and this pressure has been augmented by the increased use of electronic and direct market access trading, which has created additional competitive downward pressure on trading margins. We believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including by reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins.20IndexThe acquisition of Morgan Keegan involves risks that could affect our business.On April 2, 2012 we completed our purchase of all of the issued and outstanding shares of Morgan Keegan (refer to the discussion of this acquisition in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K). Acquisitions of this magnitude pose numerous risks, including: difficulty in integrating our and Morgan Keegan's businesses, services and products; failure to achieve anticipated synergies or realize the projected benefits of the transaction; diversion of management's attention from other business concerns due to transaction-related issues; potential loss of clients or key employees; the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients, trading counterparties and business partners; the inability to sustain revenue and earnings growth; and changes in the capital markets. There is no assurance that this acquisition will yield all of the positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able to integrate successfully, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.Regions may fail to honor its indemnification obligations associated with Morgan Keegan matters.Under the definitive stock purchase agreement dated January 11, 2012 entered into by RJF and Regions governing our acquisition of Morgan Keegan (the “SPA”), Regions has ongoing obligations to indemnify RJF with respect to certain litigation as well as other matters. RJF is relying on Regions fulfilling its indemnification obligations under the SPA with respect to such matters. Our inability to enforce these indemnification provisions, or our failure to recover losses for which we are entitled to be indemnified, could result in our incurring significant costs for defense, settlement and any adverse judgments and resultantly have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and our regulatory capital levels.See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for further information regarding these indemnification agreements.Growth of our business could increase costs and regulatory risks.We may incur significant expenses in connection with further expansion of our existing businesses, or recruitment of financial advisors, or in connection with strategic acquisitions or investments, if and to the extent they arise from time to time. Our overall profitability would be negatively affected if investments and expenses associated with such growth are not matched or exceeded by the revenues that are derived from such investment or growth.Expansion may also create a need for additional compliance, documentation, risk management and internal controls procedures, and often involves the hiring of additional personnel to monitor such procedures. To the extent such procedures are not adequate to appropriately monitor any new or expanded business, we could be exposed to a material loss or regulatory sanction. Moreover, to the extent we pursue strategic acquisitions, we may be unable to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms, or be unable to successfully integrate the operations of any acquired business into our existing business. Such acquisitions could be of significant size and/or complexity. This effort, together with difficulties we may encounter in integrating an acquired business, could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we may need to raise equity capital or borrow to finance such acquisitions, which could dilute our shareholders or increase our leverage. Any such borrowings might not be available on terms as favorable to us as our current borrowings, or perhaps at all. We face intense competition.We are engaged in intensely competitive businesses. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our financial advisors and associates, our products and services, pricing (such as execution pricing and fee levels), location and reputation in relevant markets. Over time there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry which has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. See the section entitled “Competition” of Item 1 of this Form 10-K for additional information about our competitors. Our ability to develop and retain our client base depends on the reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and skills of our employees and financial advisors. As such, to compete effectively we must attract, retain and motivate qualified associates, including successful financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue producing or specialized personnel. Competitive pressures we experience could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.21IndexWe compete directly with national full service broker-dealers, investment banking firms, and commercial banks, and to a lesser extent, with discount brokers and dealers and investment advisors. In addition, we face competition from more recent entrants into the market and increased use of alternative sales channels by other firms. Domestic commercial banks and investment banking boutique firms have entered the broker-dealer business, and large international banks are now serving our markets as well. Legislative and regulatory initiatives which eased what were at one time restrictions on the sales of securities and underwriting activities by commercial banks have increased competition. We also compete indirectly for investment assets with insurance companies, real estate firms, hedge funds, and others. This increased competition could cause our business to suffer.Competition for personnel within the financial services industry is intense. The cost of retaining skilled professionals in the financial services industry has escalated considerably. Employers in the industry are increasingly offering guaranteed contracts, upfront payments, and increased compensation. These can be important factors in a current employee's decision to leave us as well as a prospective employee's decision to join us. As competition for skilled professionals in the industry remains intense, we may have to devote significantly more resources to attracting and retaining qualified personnel. In particular, our financial results may be adversely affected by the costs we incur in connection with any upfront loans or other incentives we may offer to newly recruited financial advisors. Moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that those competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. We have been subject to several such claims in the past and may be subject to additional claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel, some of whom may currently be working for our competitors. Some of these claims may result in material litigation. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against these claims, regardless of their merits. Such claims could also discourage potential employees who currently work for our competitors from joining us.To remain competitive, our future success also depends in part on our ability to develop and enhance our products and services. In addition, the continued development of internet, networking or telecommunication technologies or other technological changes could require us to incur substantial expenditures to enhance or adapt our services or infrastructure. An inability to develop new products and services, or enhance existing offerings, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.We are exposed to operational risk.Our diverse operations are exposed to risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. Our businesses depend on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of complex transactions across numerous and diverse markets. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. Operational risk exists in every activity, function or unit of our business, and can take the form of internal or external fraud, employment and hiring practices, an error in meeting a professional obligation, failure to meet corporate fiduciary standards, business disruption or system failures and failed transaction processing. Also, increasing use of automated technology has the potential to amplify risks from manual or system processing errors, including outsourced operations. While we have business contingency plans in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption involving physical site access, catastrophic events including weather related events, events involving electrical, environmental or communications, as well as events impacting services provided by others that we rely upon which could impact our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business.See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” in this Form 10-K for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing operational risk. Our businesses depend on technology.Our businesses rely extensively on electronic data processing and communications systems. In addition to better serving clients, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables us to reduce costs. Adapting or developing our technology systems to meet new regulatory requirements, client needs, and competitive demands is critical for our business. Introduction of new technology presents challenges on a regular basis. There are significant technical and financial costs and risks in the development of new or enhanced applications, including the risk that we might be unable to effectively use new technologies or adapt our applications to emerging industry standards.22IndexOur continued success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of our systems, our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their demands and our ability to retain skilled information technology employees. Failure of our systems, which could result from events beyond our control, or an inability to effectively upgrade those systems or implement new technology-driven products or services, could result in financial losses, liability to clients and damage to our reputation. Customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased. Thus, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although to-date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Notwithstanding that we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to human error, natural disasters, power loss, spam attacks, unauthorized access, distributed denial of service (“DDOS”) attacks, computer viruses and other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our, or our clients' or counterparties', confidential and other information processed stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients', our counterparties' or third parties' operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to make required notifications, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured or are not fully covered through any insurance we maintain. A technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to potential disciplinary action by regulators.Extraordinary trading volumes beyond reasonably foreseeable spikes in volumes could cause our computer systems to operate at an unacceptably slow speed or even fail. While we have made investments to maintain the reliability and scalability of our systems and added hardware to address extraordinary volumes, there can be no assurance that our systems will be sufficient to handle truly extraordinary and unforeseen circumstances. Systems failures and delays could occur and could cause, among other things, unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients, slower system response time resulting in transactions not being processed as quickly as our clients desire, decreased levels for client service and client satisfactions and harm to our reputation. See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” in this Form 10-K for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing these types of operational risk.Our operations could be adversely affected by serious weather conditions.Our principal operations are located in St. Petersburg, Florida. While we have a business continuity plan that permits significant operations to be conducted from our Southfield, Michigan and Memphis, Tennessee locations (see Item 1, “Business” in this Form 10-K), our operations could be adversely affected by hurricanes or other serious weather conditions that could affect the processing of transactions, communications and the ability of our associates to get to our offices or work from home. Refer to the "we are exposed to credit risk" risk factor in this Item 1A for a discussion of how events, including weather events, could adversely impact RJ Bank's loan portfolio and the "we are exposed to operational risk" risk factor in this Item 1A, for a discussion of how weather related events could impact our ability to conduct business.We are exposed to litigation risks.Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability, arising from the normal course of business. We have been named as a defendant or co-defendant in lawsuits and arbitrations involving primarily claims for damages. The risks associated with potential litigation often may be difficult to assess or quantify and the existence and magnitude of potential claims often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Unauthorized or illegal acts of our employees could result in substantial liability for us. Advisors may not understand investor needs or risk tolerances. Such failures may result in the recommendation or purchase of a portfolio of assets that may not be suitable for the investor. To the extent we fail to know our customers or improperly advise them, we could be found liable for losses suffered by such customers, which could harm our business. Our Private Client Group business segment has historically had more risk of litigation than our institutional businesses. 23IndexIn highly volatile markets, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions has historically increased. These risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for alleged materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, issues related to the suitability of our investment advice based on our clients' investment objectives (including auction rate securities), the inability to sell or redeem securities in a timely manner during adverse market conditions, contractual issues, employment claims and potential liability for other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions. Substantial legal liability could have a material adverse financial effect or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business and our prospects. In addition to the foregoing financial costs and risks associated with potential liability, the costs of defending individual litigation and claims continue to increase over time. The amount of outside attorneys' fees incurred in connection with the defense of litigation and claims could be substantial and might materially and adversely affect our results of operations.As it pertains to Morgan Keegan, a number of the types of claims and matters described above are subject to indemnification from Regions. Refer to the separate risk factor in this section entitled, “Regions may fail to honor its indemnification obligations associated with Morgan Keegan matters” for a discussion of the risks associated with these indemnifications.See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in this Form 10-K for a discussion of our legal matters and Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” in this Form 10-K for discussion regarding our approach to managing legal risk.The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results and new accounting standards could adversely affect future reported results.The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Such estimates and assumptions may require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. One of our most critical estimates is RJ Bank's allowance for loan losses. At any given point in time, conditions in the real estate and credit markets may influence the complexity and increase the uncertainty involved in estimating the losses inherent in RJ Bank's loan portfolio. If management's underlying assumptions and judgments prove to be inaccurate, one outcome could be that the allowance for loan losses could be insufficient to cover actual losses. Our financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. See Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Estimates,” in this Form 10-K for additional information on the nature of these estimates.Our financial instruments, including certain trading assets and liabilities, available for sale securities including ARS, certain loans, intangible assets and private equity investments, among other items, require management to make a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our consolidated financial statements. Where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on our judgment. Some of these instruments and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable inputs, making their valuation particularly subjective, being based on significant estimation and judgment. In addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain securities may make it more difficult to value certain items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment and could lead to declines in our earnings in subsequent periods. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. For a further discussion of some of our significant accounting policies and standards, see the “Critical Accounting Estimates” discussion within Item 7, and Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, in this Form 10-K.24IndexOur risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk.We seek to manage, monitor and control our operational, legal and regulatory risk through operational and compliance reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms; however, there can be no assurance that our procedures will be fully effective. Further, our risk management methods may not effectively predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. In addition, some of our risk management methods are based on an evaluation of information regarding markets, clients and other matters that are based on assumptions that may no longer be accurate. A failure to adequately manage our growth, or to effectively manage our risk, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our risk management processes include addressing potential conflicts of interest that arise in our business. We have procedures and controls in place to address conflicts of interest. Management of potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. The failure to adequately address or the perceived failure to adequately address, conflicts of interest could affect our reputation, the willingness of clients to transact business with us or give rise to litigation or regulatory actions. Therefore, there can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could cause material harm to us. For more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” in this Form 10-K.We are exposed to risk from international markets.We do business in other parts of the world, including a few developing regions of the world commonly known as emerging markets and, as a result, are exposed to a number of risks, including economic, market, litigation and regulatory risks, in non-U.S. markets. Our businesses and revenues derived from non-U.S. operations are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, social or political instability, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, downgrades in the credit ratings of sovereign countries, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets and unfavorable legislative and political developments. Action or inaction in any of these operations, including failure to follow proper practices with respect to regulatory compliance and/or corporate governance, could harm our operations and/or our reputation. We also invest or trade in the securities of corporations located in non-U.S. jurisdictions. Revenues from the trading of non-U.S. securities also may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above factors. The impact of these fluctuations could be magnified because generally non-U.S. trading markets, particularly in emerging market countries, are smaller, less liquid and more volatile than U.S. trading markets. Additionally, a political, economic or financial disruption in a country or region could adversely impact our business and increase volatility in financial markets generally.We have risks related to our insurance programs.Our operations and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties related to our use of a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks, including most significantly: property and casualty, workers' compensation, errors and omissions liability, general liability and the portion of employee-related health care benefits plans we fund, among others. While we endeavor to purchase insurance coverage that is appropriate to our assessment of risk, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. Our business may be negatively affected if in the future our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. In addition, insurance claims may divert management resources away from operating our business.25IndexRISKS RELATED TO OUR REGULATORY ENVIRONMENTChanges in regulations resulting from either the Dodd-Frank act or any new regulations may affect our businesses.The market and economic conditions over the past few years have led to legislation and numerous and continuing proposals for changes in the regulation of the financial services industry, including significant additional legislation and regulation in the U.S. and abroad. The Dodd-Frank Act enacted sweeping changes in the supervision and regulation of the financial industry designed to provide for greater oversight of financial industry participants, reduce risk in banking practices and in securities and derivatives trading, enhance public company corporate governance practices and executive compensation disclosures, and provide for greater protections to individual consumers and investors. Certain elements of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective immediately, while the details of many provisions are subject to additional studies and final rule writing by various applicable regulatory agencies. The ultimate impact that the Dodd-Frank Act will have on us, the financial industry and the economy cannot be known until all such rules and regulations called for under the Dodd-Frank Act have been finalized and implemented.The Dodd-Frank Act may impact the manner in which we market our products and services, manage our business and its operations and interact with regulators, all of which while not currently anticipated to, could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that may impact our business include, but are not limited to: the establishment of a fiduciary standard for broker-dealers, regulatory oversight of incentive compensation, the imposition of capital requirements on financial holding companies and to a lesser extent, greater oversight over derivatives trading and restrictions on proprietary trading. Additionally, we are closely monitoring regulatory developments related to the “Volcker Rule.” Until the final regulations under the Volcker Rule are adopted, the precise definition of prohibited “proprietary trading”, the scope of any exceptions for market making and hedging, and the scope of permitted hedge fund and private equity fund activities remains uncertain. It is unclear under the proposed rules whether some portion of our market-making and risk mitigation activities, as currently conducted, will be required to be curtailed or will be otherwise adversely affected. In addition, the rules, if enacted as proposed, would prohibit certain securitization structures and would bar U.S. banking entities from sponsoring or investing in certain non-U.S. funds. Also, with respect to certain of our investments in illiquid private equity funds, should regulators not exercise their authority to permit us to hold such investments beyond the minimum statutory divestment period, we could incur substantial losses when we dispose of such investments, as we may be forced to sell such investments at a substantial discount in the secondary market as a result of both the constrained timing of such sales and the possibility that other financial institutions are likewise liquidating their investments at the same time. When the regulations are final, we will be in a position to complete a review of our relevant activities to make plans to implement compliance with the Volcker Rule, which will likely not require full conformance until July 2014, subject to extensions.To the extent the Dodd-Frank Act impacts the operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of unaffiliated financial institutions with whom we transact business, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce their capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with us.The Basel III capital standards will impose additional capital, liquidity and other requirements on us that could decrease our competitiveness and profitability.In June of 2012, the OCC, the FRB and the FDIC published three NPRs to implement aspects of Basel III, as well as to implement aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act. The proposed rules would increase the quantity and quality of capital required by establishing a new common equity tier 1 minimum capital requirement, a higher minimum tier 1 capital requirement, and more conservative standards for including an instrument in regulatory capital. In addition, these NPRs propose to apply limits on capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if a specified amount of common equity tier 1 capital in addition to the amount necessary to meet minimum capital requirements is not held and revised rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to enhance risk sensitivity and address weaknesses identified over recent years. Given that these proposed NPRs are subject to change, the adoption of these proposed rules could restrict our ability to grow during favorable market conditions or require us to raise additional capital and liquidity. As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects could be adversely affected.26IndexWe operate in a highly regulated industry in which future developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition.The securities industry is subject to extensive regulation, and broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business including, but not limited to, sales and trading methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, capital structure of securities firms, anti-money laundering efforts, record keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. If laws or regulations are violated, we could be subject to one or more of the following: civil liability, criminal liability, sanctions which could include the revocation of our subsidiaries' registrations as investment advisors or broker-dealers, the revocation of the licenses of our financial advisors, censures, fines or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business. Any of those events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. The majority of our affiliated financial advisors are independent contractors. Legislative or regulatory action that redefines the criteria for determining whether a person is an employee or an independent contractor could materially impact our relationships with our advisors and our business, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations.During fiscal year 2012, RJF became both a bank holding company and a financial holding company. Although we have a statutory grace period of two years, with the possibility of three one-year extensions for a total grace period of up to five years, to conform existing activities and investments to the restrictions on nonbanking activities that apply to financial holding companies, we expect to be able to continue to engage in the vast majority of the activities in which we currently engage. After such time, it is possible that certain of our existing activities will be deemed to be impermissible under applicable regulations. In addition, as a financial holding company subject to the supervision and regulation of the Fed, we are now subject to the Fed's risk-based and leverage capital requirements and information reporting requirements. We currently invest in selected private equity and merchant banking investments (see the description of this activity in the “Proprietary Capital” section of Part 1, Item 1 Business, within this Form 10-K). As a financial holding company, the magnitude of such investments is subject to certain limitations. At our current investment levels, we do not anticipate having to make any otherwise unplanned divestitures of these investments in order to comply with regulatory limits, however, the amount of future investments may be limited in order to maintain compliance within regulatory specified levels. As a result of our conversion, we are subject to additional bank holding company regulatory reporting requirements which add to our administrative workload and costs. The maintenance of certain risk-based regulatory capital levels could impact various capital allocation decisions of one or more of our businesses. However, due to our strong current capital position, we do not anticipate that these capital requirements will have any negative impact on our future business activities. See the section entitled “Business - Regulation” of Item 1 of this Form 10-K for additional information.As a financial holding company, we are regulated by the Fed. RJ Bank is also regulated by the OCC and FDIC. This oversight includes, but is not limited to, scrutiny with respect to affiliate transactions and compliance with consumer regulations. The economic and political environment has caused increased focus on the regulation of the financial services industry, including many proposals for new rules. Any new rules issued by our regulators could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We also may be adversely affected as a result of changes in federal, state, or foreign tax laws, or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. The SEC has proposed certain measures that would establish a new framework to replace the requirements of Rule 12b-1 under the Investment Company Act of 1940, with respect to how mutual funds collect and pay fees to cover the costs of selling and marketing their shares. Any adoption of such measures would be phased in over a number of years. As these measures are neither final nor undergoing implementation throughout the financial services industry, the impact of changes such as those currently proposed cannot be predicted at this time. As this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results. See the section entitled “Business - Regulation” within Item 1 of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding our regulatory environment and Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” in this Form 10-K regarding our approaches to managing regulatory risk. Regulatory actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to us, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operation.27IndexFailure to comply with regulatory capital requirements would significantly harm our business.We are subject to the SEC's uniform net capital rule (Rule 15c3-1) and the net capital rule of FINRA, which may limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital from our broker-dealer subsidiaries. The uniform net capital rule sets the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that a portion of its assets be relatively liquid. FINRA may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if resulting net capital falls below its requirements. In addition, our Canada based broker-dealer subsidiary is subject to similar limitations under applicable regulation in that jurisdiction.RJF and RJ Bank are subject to various regulatory and capital requirements administered by the federal banking regulators. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, RJF and RJ Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of RJF and RJ Bank's assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. RJF's and RJ Bank's capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components of our capital, risk weightings of assets, off-balance sheet transactions, and other factors. Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require RJF and RJ Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of Total and Tier I Capital to risk-weighted assets and Tier I Capital to adjusted assets (as defined in the regulations). Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could harm RJ Bank's operations and our financial condition.Additionally, as RJF is a holding company, it depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund payments of its obligations including, among others, debt service. Regulatory capital requirements applicable to some of our significant subsidiaries may impede access to funds the holding company needs to make payments on any such obligations. See Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for further information on regulations and capital requirements.RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK The market price of our common stock may continue to be volatile.The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile and subject to fluctuations. Stocks of financial institutions have, from time to time, experienced significant downward pressure in connection with economic conditions or events and may again experience such pressures in the future. Changes in the stock market generally or as it concerns our industry, as well as geopolitical, economic and business factors unrelated to us, may also affect our stock price. Significant declines in the market price of our common stock or failure of the market price to increase could harm our ability to recruit and retain key employees, reduce our access to debt or equity capital and otherwise harm our business or financial condition. Our current shareholders may experience dilution in their holdings if we issue additional shares of common stock as a result of future offerings or acquisitions where we use our common stock.As part of our business strategy, we may seek opportunities for growth through strategic acquisitions in which we may consider issuing equity securities as part of the consideration. Additionally, we may obtain additional capital through the public sale of debt or equity securities. If we sell equity securities, the value of our common stock could experience dilution. Furthermore, these securities could have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of the common stock. Moreover, if we issue additional shares of common stock in connection with equity compensation, future acquisitions, or as a result of financing, an investor's ownership interest in our company will be diluted.The issuance of any additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or that represent the right to receive common stock, or the exercise of such securities, could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock. Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales or issuance of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock.28IndexOur officers, directors and employees own a substantial amount of our common stock and therefore exercise significant control over our corporate governance and affairs, which may result in their taking actions with which other shareholders do not agree.As of September 30, 2012, our executive officers, directors and employees control a relatively significant portion of our outstanding common stock (including restricted stock and exercisable stock options which they hold). These shareholders, if they act together, may be able to exercise substantial influence over the outcome of all corporate actions requiring approval of our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which may result in corporate action with which other shareholders do not agree. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that might affect the market price of our common stock, given that our articles of incorporation require the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all shares outstanding and entitled to vote to approve any of the specified types of business combinations.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS