Item 1A. RISK FACTORSOur operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of our common stock or our senior notes which are listed on the NYSE. The list of risk factors provided below is not exhaustive; there may be factors not discussed below or in this Form 10-K that adversely impact our results of operations, harm our reputation or inhibit our ability to generate new business prospects.RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRYDamage to our reputation could damage our businesses.Maintaining our reputation is critical to attracting and maintaining clients, customers, investors and associates. If we fail to deal with, or appear to fail to deal with, issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could significantly harm our business prospects. These issues include, but are not limited to, any of the risks discussed in this Item 1A, appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money laundering, cybersecurity and privacy, recordkeeping, sales and trading practices, failure to sell securities we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels, and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity, and market risks inherent in our products. A failure to maintain appropriate standards of service and quality, or a failure or perceived failure to treat customers and clients fairly, can result in client dissatisfaction, litigation and heightened regulatory scrutiny, all of which can lead to lost revenue, higher operating costs and harm to our reputation. Further, negative publicity regarding us, whether or not true, may also harm our future business prospects. We are affected by domestic and international macroeconomic conditions that impact the global financial markets. We are engaged in various financial services businesses. As such, we are generally affected by domestic and international macroeconomic and political conditions, including levels of economic output, interest and inflation rates, employment levels, consumer confidence levels, and fiscal and monetary policy. These conditions may directly and indirectly impact a number of factors in the global financial markets that may be detrimental to our operating results, including trading levels, investing, and origination activity in the securities markets, security valuations, the absolute and relative level and volatility of interest and currency rates, real estate values, the actual and perceived quality of issuers and borrowers, and the supply of and demand for loans and deposits. At times over the last several years we have experienced operating cycles during weak and uncertain U.S. and global economic conditions, including low levels of economic output, artificially maintained levels of historically low interest rates, relatively high rates of unemployment, and significant uncertainty with regards to fiscal and monetary policy both domestically and abroad. These 16Indexconditions led to several changes in the global financial markets that from time to time negatively impacted our net revenue and profitability. While the global financial markets have showed general signs of improvement, uncertainty remains. A period of sustained downturns and/or volatility in the securities markets, prolonged continuation of the artificially low level of short term interest rates, a return to increased dislocations in the credit markets, reductions in the value of real estate, and other negative market factors could significantly impair our revenues and profitability. We could experience a decline in commission revenue from a lower volume of trades we execute for our clients, a decline in fees from reduced portfolio values of securities managed on behalf of our clients, a reduction in revenue from the number and size of transactions in which we provide underwriting, financial advisory and other services, increased credit provisions and charge-offs, losses sustained from our customers’ and market participants’ failure to fulfill their settlement obligations, reduced net interest earnings, and other losses. These periods of reduced revenue and other losses could be accompanied by periods of reduced profitability because certain of our expenses including but not limited to our interest expense on debt, rent, facilities and salary expenses are fixed and, our ability to reduce them over short periods of time is limited.  U.S. markets may also be impacted by political and civil unrest occurring in the Middle East and in Eastern Europe and Russia. Concerns about the European Union’s (“EU”) sovereign debt in recent years, including the Greek government bailout, has caused uncertainty and disruption for financial markets globally. Continued uncertainties loom over the outcome of the EU’s financial support programs and the possibility exists that other EU member states may experience similar financial troubles in the future. Any negative impact on economic conditions and global markets from these matters could adversely affect our business, financial condition and liquidity.  Our businesses and earnings are affected by the fiscal and other policies adopted by various regulatory authorities of the United States, foreign governments, and domestic and international agencies. The Fed regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Fed policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments. The market impact from such policies can also materially decrease the value of certain of our financial assets, most notably debt securities. Changes in Fed policies are beyond our control and, consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of our operations are difficult to predict. We may also be indirectly impacted by fiscal and monetary policy enacted in various global markets.U.S. state and local governments also continue to struggle with budget pressures caused by the ongoing less than optimal economic environment and ongoing concerns regarding municipal issuer credit quality. If these trends continue or worsen, investor concerns could potentially reduce the number and size of transactions in which we participate and, in turn, reduce investment banking revenues. In addition, such factors could adversely affect the value of the municipal securities we hold in our trading securities portfolio.RJ Bank is particularly affected by economic conditions in North America. Market conditions in the United States and Canada can be assessed through the following metrics: the level and volatility of interest rates; the rates of unemployment and under-employment; real estate prices; the level of consumer confidence; changes in consumer spending; and the number of personal bankruptcies, among others. The deterioration of these factors can diminish loan demand, lead to an increase in mortgage and other loan delinquencies, affect loan repayment performance and result in higher reserves and net charge-offs, which can adversely affect our earnings.Lack of liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition.Maintaining an appropriate level of liquidity, or the amount of capital that is readily available for investment, spending, or to meet our contractual obligations, is essential to our business. Our inability to maintain adequate levels of capital in the form of cash and readily available access to the credit and capital markets could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition. If liquidity from our brokerage or banking operations is inadequate or unavailable, we may be required to scale back or curtail our operations, including limiting our efforts to recruit additional financial advisors, selling assets at prices that may be less favorable to us, and cutting or eliminating the dividends we pay to our shareholders. Some potential conditions that could negatively affect our liquidity include the inability of our subsidiaries to generate cash in the form of dividends from earnings, changes imposed by regulators to our liquidity or capital requirements in our subsidiaries that may prevent the upstream of dividends in the form of cash to the parent company, limited or no accessibility to credit markets for secured and unsecured borrowings by our subsidiaries, diminished access to the capital markets for our company, and other commitments or restrictions on capital as a result of adverse legal settlements, judgments, or regulatory sanctions. The availability of outside financing, including access to the credit and capital markets, depends on a variety of factors, such as conditions in the debt and equity markets, the general availability of credit, the volume of securities trading activity, the overall availability of credit to the financial services sector, and our credit ratings. Our cost and availability of funding may be adversely 17Indexaffected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Additionally, lenders may from time to time curtail, or even cease to provide, funding to borrowers as a result of future concerns over the strength of specific counterparties, as well as the stability of markets generally.If our credit ratings were downgraded, or if rating agencies indicate that a downgrade may occur, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely affected, perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged, and as a result, adversely affect our relationships with clients. Such a reduction in our credit ratings could also adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our incremental borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets, trigger obligations under certain financial agreements, or decrease the number of investors, clients and counterparties willing or permitted to do business with or lend to us, thereby curtailing our business operations and reducing profitability. We may not be able to successfully obtain additional outside financing to fund our operations on favorable terms, or at all. The impact of a credit rating downgrade to a level below investment grade would result in our breaching provisions in certain of our derivative instruments, and may result in a request for immediate payment and/or ongoing overnight collateralization on our derivative instruments in liability positions (see Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for such information as of September 30, 2015). A credit downgrade would also result in RJF incurring a higher commitment fee on any unused balance on its $300 million revolving credit facility executed on August 6, 2015, in addition to triggering a higher interest rate applicable to any borrowings outstanding on the line as of and subsequent to such downgrade (see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Sources of Liquidity” for information on this revolving credit facility).Furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our stock. The OCC, the Fed, the FDIC, and the SEC (through FINRA) have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the subsidiaries to their parent, for the subsidiaries they supervise. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” in this report for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk.We are exposed to market risk.We are, directly and indirectly, affected by changes in market conditions. Market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. For example, changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest spread, the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and other sources of funding, which in turn impacts our net interest income and earnings. Changes in interest rates could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. In our brokerage operations, a rising interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread. Conversely in those operations, a falling interest rate environment generally results in our earning a smaller net interest spread. If we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate risk, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.Market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities, including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, derivatives, and venture capital and private equity investments. Market conditions that change from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices, relative exchange rates, and price deterioration or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of an issuer.In addition, disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets may result in our inability to sell, syndicate or realize the value of security positions, thereby leading to increased concentrations. The inability to reduce our positions in specific securities may not only increase the market and credit risks associated with such positions, but also increase the level of risk-weighted assets on our balance sheet, thereby increasing capital requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our business results, financial condition and liquidity.Our venture capital and private equity investments are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings. The value of our private equity portfolios can fluctuate and earnings from our venture capital investments can be volatile and difficult to predict. When, and if, we recognize gains can depend on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, when these companies go public, the size of our position relative to the public float and whether we are subject to any resale restrictions. Further, our investments could incur significant mark-to-market losses, especially if they have been written up in prior periods because of higher market prices. 18IndexSee Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing market risk.We are exposed to credit risk.We are generally exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will fail to meet their performance obligations due to numerous causes, including bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, or operational failure, among others. We actively buy and sell securities from and to clients and counterparties in the normal course of our broker-dealers market making and underwriting businesses, which exposes us to credit risk. Although generally collateralized by the underlying security to the transaction, we still face the risk associated with changes in the market value of collateral through settlement date. We also hold certain securities, loans and derivatives in our trading accounts. Deterioration in the actual or perceived credit quality of the underlying issuers of securities or loans, or the non-performance of issuers and counterparties to certain derivative contracts could result in trading losses.  We borrow securities from, and lend securities to, other broker-dealers, and may also enter into agreements to repurchase and/or resell securities as part of investing and financing activities. A sharp change in the security market values utilized in these transactions may result in losses if counterparties to these transactions fail to honor their commitments.We manage the risk associated with these transactions by establishing and monitoring credit limits, as well as by monitoring collateral and transaction levels on a daily basis. A significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of our counterparties could lead to concerns in the market about the credit quality of other counterparties in the same industry, thereby exacerbating our credit risk exposure. We may require counterparties to deposit additional collateral or substitute collateral pledged. In the case of aged securities failed to receive, we may, under industry regulations, purchase the underlying securities in the market and seek reimbursement for any losses from the counterparty. Also, we permit our clients to purchase securities on margin. During periods of steep declines in securities prices, the value of the collateral securing client margin loans may fall below the amount of the purchaser’s indebtedness. If the clients are unable to provide additional collateral for these margin loans, we may incur losses on those margin transactions. This may cause us to incur additional expenses defending or pursuing claims or litigation related to counterparty or client defaults. We deposit our cash in depository institutions as a means of maintaining the liquidity necessary to meet our operating needs, and we also facilitate the deposit of cash awaiting investment in depository institutions on behalf of our clients. A failure of a depository institution to return these deposits could severely impact our operating liquidity, result in significant reputational damage, and adversely impact our financial performance.We also incur credit risk by lending to businesses and individuals through the offering of: C&I loans, commercial and residential mortgage loans, tax-exempt loans, home equity lines of credit, and margin and non-purpose loans collateralized by securities, among others. We incur credit risk through our investments, which include MBS, collateralized mortgage obligations, auction rate securities, and other municipal securities.Our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans or investments are concentrated among borrowers or issuers engaged in the same or similar activities, industries, geographies, or to borrowers or issuers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. The deterioration of an individually large exposure, for example due to natural disasters, health emergencies or pandemics, acts of terrorism, severe weather events or other adverse economic events, could lead to additional loan loss provisions and/or charges-offs, or credit impairment of our investments, and subsequently have a material impact on our net income and regulatory capital. Declines in the real estate market or sustained economic downturns may cause us to write down the value of some of the loans in RJ Bank’s portfolio, foreclose on certain real estate properties or write down the value of some of our available for sale securities portfolio. Credit quality generally may also be affected by adverse changes in the financial performance or condition of our debtors or deterioration in the strength of the U.S. economy. Our policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans or satisfy their obligations to us. See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing credit risk.19IndexOur business depends on fees generated from the distribution of financial products, fees earned from the management of client accounts by our asset management subsidiaries, and on advisory fees.A large portion of our revenues are derived from fees generated from the distribution of financial products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities. Changes in the structure or amount of the fees paid by the sponsors of these products could directly affect our revenues, business and financial condition. In addition, if these products experience losses or increased investor redemptions, we may receive lower fee revenue from the investment management and distribution services we provide on behalf of the mutual funds and annuities. The investment management fees we are paid may also decline over time due to factors such as increased competition, renegotiation of contracts and the introduction of new, lower-priced investment products and services. Changes in market values or in the fee structure of asset management accounts would affect our revenues, business and financial condition. Asset management fees often are primarily comprised of base management and incentive fees. Management fees are primarily based on assets under management (“AUM”). AUM balances are impacted by net inflow/outflow of client assets and market values. Below-market investment performance by our funds and portfolio managers could result in a loss of managed accounts and could result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors and thus further impact our business and financial condition. If we were to experience the loss of managed accounts, our fee revenue would decline. In addition, in periods of declining market values, our asset values under management may resultantly decline, which would negatively impact our fee revenues.Our underwriting, market-making, trading, and other business activities place our capital at risk.We may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities which we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels. As an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. As a market maker, we may own positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if our holdings were more diversified. In addition, we may incur losses as a result of proprietary positions we hold in connection with our market making or underwriting activities.From time to time and as part of our underwriting processes, we may carry significant positions in securities of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry. Sudden changes in the value of these positions could impact our financial results.We have made and may continue to make principal investments in private equity funds and other illiquid investments, which are typically private limited partnership interests and securities that are not publicly traded. There is risk that we may be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale or other disposition at attractive prices or that we may otherwise be unable to complete a desirable exit strategy. In particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions. It could take a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of such investments through resale. Even if a private equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash.The soundness of other financial institutions and intermediaries affects us.We face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate our securities transactions. As a result of the consolidation over the years among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, our exposure to certain financial intermediaries has increased and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives should the need arise. Any failure, termination or constraint of these intermediaries could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk. Our ability to engage in routine trading and funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, funding, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. Furthermore, although we do not hold any EU sovereign debt, we may do business with and be exposed to financial institutions that have been affected by the EU sovereign debt circumstances. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about the financial condition of, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have historically led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. Although we have not suffered any material or significant losses 20Indexas a result of the failure of any financial counterparty, any such losses in the future may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We have experienced increased pricing pressures in areas of our business which may impair our future revenue and profitability.Our business continues to experience increased pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in fixed income and equity trading. In the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to increased price competition and decreased trading margins. In the equity market, we have experienced increased pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, and this pressure has been augmented by the increased use of electronic and direct market access trading, which has created additional competitive downward pressure on trading margins. We believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including by reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins.Regions may fail to honor its indemnification obligations associated with Morgan Keegan matters.Under the definitive stock purchase agreement, dated January 11, 2012, entered into by RJF and Regions, governing our acquisition of Morgan Keegan (the “SPA”), Regions has ongoing obligations to continue to indemnify RJF with respect to certain litigation as well as other matters. Specifically, the terms of the SPA provide that Regions will indemnify RJF for losses incurred in connection with legal proceedings pending as of the closing date, April 2, 2012, or commenced thereafter and related to pre-closing matters that are received prior to April 2, 2015, as well as any cost of defense pertaining thereto. RJF is relying on Regions to continue fulfilling its indemnification obligations under the SPA with respect to such matters. Our inability to enforce these indemnification provisions, or our failure to recover losses for which we are entitled to be indemnified, could result in our incurring significant costs for defense, settlement, and any adverse judgments, and resultantly have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and our regulatory capital levels.See Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for further information regarding the indemnification from Regions.Growth of our business could increase costs and regulatory and integration risks.Integrating acquired businesses, providing a platform for new businesses and partnering with other firms involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges. We may incur significant expenses in connection with further expansion of our existing businesses, or recruitment of financial advisors, or in connection with strategic acquisitions or investments, if and to the extent they arise from time to time. Our overall profitability would be negatively affected if investments and expenses associated with such growth are not matched or exceeded by the revenues that are derived from such investment or growth.Expansion may also create a need for additional compliance, documentation, risk management and internal control procedures, and often involves the hiring of additional personnel to monitor such procedures. To the extent such procedures are not adequate to appropriately monitor any new or expanded business, we could be exposed to a material loss or regulatory sanction. Moreover, to the extent we pursue strategic acquisitions, we may be unable to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms, or be unable to successfully integrate the operations of any acquired business into our existing business. Such acquisitions could be of significant size and/or complexity. This effort, together with difficulties we may encounter in integrating an acquired business, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we may need to raise equity capital or borrow to finance such acquisitions, which could dilute our shareholders or increase our leverage. Any such borrowings might not be available on terms as favorable to us as our current borrowings, or perhaps at all. We face intense competition. We are engaged in intensely competitive businesses. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our financial advisors and associates, our products and services, pricing (such as execution pricing and fee levels), location and reputation in relevant markets. Over time there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry which has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. See the section entitled “Competition” of Item 1 of this report for additional information about our competitors. We compete directly with national full service broker-dealers, investment banking firms, and commercial banks, and to a lesser extent, with discount brokers and dealers and investment advisors. In addition, we face competition from more recent 21Indexentrants into the market and increased use of alternative sales channels by other firms. We also compete indirectly for investment assets with insurance companies, real estate firms and hedge funds, among others. This competition could cause our business to suffer.To remain competitive, our future success also depends in part on our ability to develop and enhance our products and services. The inability to develop new products and services, or enhance existing offerings, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, we may incur substantial expenditures to keep pace with the constant changes and enhancements being made in technology, including improvements made to internet connectivity, networking and telecommunications systems.Our ability to attract and retain senior professionals, qualified financial advisors and other associates is critical to the continued success of our business.Our ability to develop and retain our client base depends on the reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and skills of our senior professionals, particularly our managing directors, and the members of our executive committees, as well as employees and financial advisors. To compete effectively we must attract, retain and motivate qualified professionals, including successful financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue producing or specialized personnel. The reputations and relationships of our senior professionals with our clients are a critical element in obtaining and executing client engagement. Competitive pressures we experience could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.Turnover in the financial services industry is high. The cost of retaining skilled professionals in the financial services industry has escalated considerably. Employers in the industry are increasingly offering guaranteed contracts, upfront payments, and increased compensation. These can be important factors in a current employee’s decision to leave us as well as a prospective employee’s decision to join us. As competition for skilled professionals in the industry remains intense, we may have to devote significant resources to attracting and retaining qualified personnel. To the extent we have compensation targets, we may not be able to retain our employees which could result in increased recruiting expense or result in our recruiting additional employees at compensation levels that are not within our target range. In particular, our financial results may be adversely affected by the costs we incur in connection with any upfront loans or other incentives we may offer to newly recruited financial advisors and other key personnel. If we were to lose the services of any of our investment bankers, senior equity research, sales and trading professionals, asset managers, or executive officers to a new or existing competitor or otherwise, we may not be able to retain valuable relationships and some of our clients could choose to use the services of a competitor instead of our services. If we are unable to retain our senior professionals or recruit additional professionals, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Further, new business initiatives and efforts to expand existing businesses generally require that we incur compensation and benefits expense before generating additional revenues.Moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that those competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. We have been subject to several such claims in the past and may be subject to additional claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel, some of whom may currently be working for our competitors. Some of these claims may result in material litigation. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against these claims, regardless of their merits. Such claims could also discourage potential employees who currently work for our competitors from joining us.We are exposed to operational risk.Our diverse operations expose us to risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, external events, including technological or connectivity failures either at the exchanges in which we do business or between our data center, operations processing sites or our branches. Our businesses depend on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of complex transactions across numerous and diverse markets. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. Operational risk exists in every activity, function or unit of our business, and can take the form of internal or external fraud, employment and hiring practices, an error in meeting a professional obligation, or failure to meet corporate fiduciary standards. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. If our employees engage in misconduct, our businesses would be adversely affected. Operational risk also exists in the event of business disruption, system failures or failed transaction processing. Third parties with which we do business could also be a source of operational risk, including with respect to breakdowns or failures of the systems or misconduct by the employees of such parties. In addition as we change processes or introduce new products and services, we may not fully appreciate 22Indexor identify new operational risks that may arise from such changes. Increasing use of automated technology has the potential to amplify risks from manual or system processing errors, including outsourced operations.Our existing business contingency plan is intended to ensure that we have the ability to recover our critical business functions and supporting assets, including staff and technology, in the event of a systemic business interruption. Despite the diligence we have applied to the development and testing of our plans, due to unforeseen factors, our ability to conduct business may in any case be adversely affected by a disruption involving physical site access, catastrophic events including weather related events, events involving electrical, environmental or communications malfunctions, as well as events impacting services provided by others that we rely upon which could impact our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business.See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing operational risk. Associate misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subject us to significant legal liability and reputational harm.There have been a number of highly-publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by associates in the financial services industry, and there is a risk that our associates could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. For example, our banking business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. If our associates were to improperly use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position, current client relationships and ability to attract future clients. We are also subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our asset management business and our authority over the assets managed by our asset management business. In addition our financial advisors may act in a fiduciary capacity, providing financial planning, investment advice and discretionary asset management. The violation of these obligations and standards by any of our associates would adversely affect our clients and us. It is not always possible to deter associate misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. If our associates engage in misconduct, our business would be adversely affected. Our businesses depend on technology.Our businesses rely extensively on electronic data processing and communications systems. In addition to better serving clients, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables us to reduce costs. Adapting or developing our technology systems to meet new regulatory requirements, client needs, and competitive demands is critical for our business. Introduction of new technology presents challenges on a regular basis. There are significant technical and financial costs and risks in the development of new or enhanced applications, including the risk that we might be unable to effectively use new technologies or adapt our applications to emerging industry standards.Our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to: successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of our technology systems; address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their demands; and retain skilled information technology employees. Failure of our technology systems, which could result from events beyond our control, or an inability to effectively upgrade those systems or implement new technology-driven products or services, could result in financial losses, liability to clients, violations of applicable privacy and other applicable laws and regulatory sanctions. The expectations of sound operational and informational security practices have risen among our clients and customers, the public at large and regulators. Thus, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, cyberattacks and breakdowns. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although cyber security incidents among financial services firms are on the rise, we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyberattacks or other information security breaches. However, there can be no assurances that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Despite our implementation of protective measures and endeavoring to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to human error, natural disasters, power loss, spam attacks, unauthorized access, distributed denial of service attacks, computer viruses and other malicious code and other events that could have an impact on the security and stability of our operations. Notwithstanding the precautions taken by us and measures put in place, if one or more of these events were to occur, this could jeopardize the information we confidentially maintain, including that of our clients and counterparties, which is processed, stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our clients and counterparties. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to make required notifications. 23IndexWe may also be subject to litigation and financial losses that are neither insured nor covered under any of our current insurance policies. A technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to potential disciplinary action by regulators.Extraordinary trading volumes beyond reasonably foreseeable spikes could cause our computer systems to operate at an unacceptably slow speed or even fail entirely. While we have invested resources to maintain the reliability and scalability of our systems and maintain hardware to address extraordinary volumes, there can be no assurance that our systems will be sufficient to handle truly extraordinary and unforeseen circumstances. Systems failures and delays could occur and could cause, among other things, unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients or slower system response times, resulting in client dissatisfaction due to transactions not being processed as quickly as desired.In providing services to clients, we may manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or employee data, including personal data. As a result, we may be subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of personally identifiable information and international laws. These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number. If any person, including any of our associates, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client or employee data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates such data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution. In addition, unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through system failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients and related revenue. Potential liability in the event of a security breach of client data could be significant. Depending on the circumstances giving rise to the breach, this liability may not be subject to a contractual limit or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages.See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches for managing these types of operational risks.Our operations could be adversely affected by serious weather conditions.Certain of our principal operations are located in St. Petersburg, Florida. While we have a business continuity plan that permits significant operations to be conducted out of our Southfield, Michigan and Memphis, Tennessee locations and our information systems processing to be conducted out of our information technology data center in the Denver, Colorado area, our operations could be adversely affected by hurricanes or other serious weather conditions that could affect the processing of transactions, communications, and the ability of our associates to get to our offices, or work from home. Refer to the “we are exposed to credit risk” risk factor in this Item 1A for a discussion of how events, including weather events, could adversely impact RJ Bank’s loan portfolio. Refer to the “we are exposed to operational risk” risk factor in this Item 1A for a discussion of how weather-related events could impact our ability to conduct business.We are exposed to litigation risks, which could materially and adversely impact our business operations and prospects.Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability arising out of the normal course of business. We have been named as a defendant or co-defendant in lawsuits and arbitrations involving primarily claims for damages. The risks associated with potential litigation often may be difficult to assess or quantify and the existence and magnitude of potential claims often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Unauthorized or illegal acts of our associates could result in substantial liability. The failure of our advisors to fully understand investor needs or risk tolerances may result in the recommendation or purchase of a portfolio of assets that may not be suitable for the investor. To the extent we fail to fully understand our clients or improperly advise them, we could be found liable for losses suffered by such clients, which could harm our business. Our Private Client Group business segment has historically been more susceptible to litigation than our institutional businesses. In highly volatile markets, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions has historically increased. These risks include potential liability under securities laws or other laws for: alleged materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions; issues related to the suitability of our investment advice based on our clients’ investment objectives; the inability to sell or redeem securities in a timely manner during adverse market conditions; contractual issues; employment claims; and potential liability for other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions. Substantial legal liability could have a material adverse financial impact or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business and future business prospects. In addition to the foregoing financial costs and risks associated with potential liability, the costs of defending individual litigation and claims continue to increase over time. The amount of outside attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the defense of litigation and claims could be substantial and might materially and adversely affect our results of operations.24IndexWith regard to Morgan Keegan, a number of the types of claims and matters described above arising prior to our acquisition, that are received prior to April 2, 2015, are subject to indemnification from Regions. Refer to the separate risk factor in this section entitled “Regions may fail to honor its indemnification obligations associated with Morgan Keegan matters” for a discussion of the risks associated with these indemnifications.See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in this report for a discussion of our legal matters and Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” in this report for a discussion regarding our approach to managing legal risk.The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results and new accounting standards could adversely affect future reported results.The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Such estimates and assumptions may require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. One of our most critical estimates is RJ Bank’s allowance for loan losses. At any given point in time, conditions in the real estate and credit markets may increase the complexity and uncertainty involved in estimating the losses inherent in RJ Bank’s loan portfolio. If management’s underlying assumptions and judgments prove to be inaccurate, one outcome could be that the allowance for loan losses could be insufficient to cover actual losses. Our financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Estimates,” in this report for additional information on the nature of these estimates.Our financial instruments, including certain trading assets and liabilities, available for sale securities including Auction Rate Securities (“ARS”), certain loans, intangible assets and private equity investments, among other items, require management to make a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our consolidated financial statements. Where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means, which ultimately rely to some degree on our subjective judgment. Some of these instruments and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable inputs, making their valuation particularly subjective and, consequently, based on significant estimation and judgment. In addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain securities may make it more difficult to value certain items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment, as well as declines in our earnings in subsequent periods. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) and the SEC have at times revised the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. For further discussion of some of our significant accounting policies and standards, see the “Critical Accounting Estimates” discussion within Item 7 in this report, and Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.In December 2012, the FASB issued a proposed standard on accounting for credit losses. The standard would replace multiple existing impairment models, including the replacement of the “incurred loss” model for loans with an “expected loss” model. The FASB announced it will establish the effective date when it issues the final standard. We cannot predict when a final standard will be issued, when it will be made effective, what its final provisions will encompass, or the potential impact its eventual adoption may have on our retained earnings. Our risk management and conflicts of interest policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk.We seek to manage, monitor and control our operational, legal and regulatory risk through operational and compliance reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms; however, there can be no assurance that our procedures will be fully effective. Our banking and trading processes seek to balance our ability to profit from banking and trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. While we utilize limits and other risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate unforeseen economic and financial outcomes or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. 25IndexFurther, our risk management methods may not effectively predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. In addition, some of our risk management methods are based on an evaluation of information regarding markets, clients and other matters that are based on assumptions that may no longer be accurate. A failure to adequately manage our growth, or to effectively manage our risk, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interest or perceived conflicts, all of which are under growing scrutiny by federal and state regulators in the United States. Our risk management processes include addressing potential conflicts of interest that arise in our business. We have procedures and controls in place to address conflicts of interest. Management of potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. The actual or perceived failure to adequately address conflicts of interest could affect our reputation, the willingness of clients to transact business with us or give rise to litigation or regulatory actions. Therefore, there can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could cause material harm to us. For more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” in this report.We are exposed to risk from international markets.We do business in other parts of the world, including a few developing regions commonly known as emerging markets, and as a result, are exposed to a number of risks, including economic, market, litigation and regulatory risks. Our businesses and revenues derived from non-U.S. operations are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, social or political instability, less established regulatory regimes, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, downgrades in the credit ratings of sovereign countries, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets and unfavorable legislative, economic and political developments. Action or inaction in any of these operations, including failure to follow proper practices with respect to regulatory compliance and/or corporate governance, could harm our operations and our reputation. We also invest or trade in the securities of corporations located in non-U.S. jurisdictions. Revenues from the trading of non-U.S. securities also may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the abovementioned factors. The impact of these fluctuations could be magnified because non-U.S. trading markets, particularly in emerging market countries, are generally smaller and less developed, less liquid and more volatile than U.S. trading markets. Additionally, a political, economic or financial disruption in a country or region could adversely impact our business and increase volatility in financial markets generally.We have risks related to our insurance programs.Our operations and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties related to our use of a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks, including most significantly: property and casualty, workers’ compensation, errors and omissions liability, general liability and the portion of employee-related health care benefits plans we fund, among others. While we endeavor to purchase insurance coverage that is appropriate to our assessment of risk, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. Our business may be negatively affected if in the future our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. In addition, insurance claims may divert management resources away from operating our business.RISKS RELATED TO OUR REGULATORY ENVIRONMENTFinancial services firms have been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions.Firms in the financial services industry have been operating in an onerous regulatory environment, which will become even more stringent in light of recent well-publicized failures of regulators to detect and prevent fraud. The industry has experienced increased scrutiny from a variety of regulators, including the SEC, the Fed, the OCC and the CFPB, in addition to stock exchanges, FINRA and state attorneys general. Penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years. We may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and SROs. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many different aspects of financial services, including, but not limited to, the authority to fine us and to grant, cancel, restrict or otherwise impose conditions on the right to continue operating particular businesses. For example, the failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the Exchange Act on broker-dealers and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 on investment advisers, including recordkeeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, 26Indexor by the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “1940 Act”), could result in investigations, sanctions and reputational damage. We also may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or SROs (e.g., FINRA) that supervise the financial markets. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action taken against us could harm our business prospects through adverse financial effects and reputational harm.Changes in regulations resulting from either the Dodd-Frank Act or any new regulations or laws may affect our businesses.The market and economic conditions over the past several years have directly led to a demand by the public for changes in the way the financial services industry is regulated, including a call for more stringent legislation and regulation in the United States and abroad. The Dodd-Frank Act enacted sweeping changes and an unprecedented increase in the supervision and regulation of the financial services industry (see Item 1, “Regulation,” in this report for a discussion of such changes, including the Volcker Rule). The ultimate impact that the Dodd-Frank Act will have on us, the financial industry and the economy at large cannot be specifically ascertained until all of the implementing regulations called for under the legislation have been finalized and fully implemented. Nevertheless, it is apparent that these legislative and regulatory changes could affect our revenue, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, impact the value of our assets, require us to alter at least some of our business practices, impose additional costs, and otherwise adversely affect our businesses.The Dodd-Frank Act impacts the manner in which we market our products and services, manage our business and operations, and interact with regulators, all of which could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that have or may impact our businesses include: the establishment of a fiduciary standard for broker-dealers; regulatory oversight of incentive compensation; the imposition of capital requirements on financial holding companies and to a lesser extent, greater oversight over derivatives trading; and restrictions on proprietary trading. There is also increased regulatory scrutiny (and related compliance costs) as we continue to grow and surpass certain thresholds established under the Dodd-Frank Act. These include, but are not limited to, RJ Bank’s oversight by the CFPB. The CFPB has been active in investigating products, services, and operations of credit providers, including banks, for compliance with various consumer protection laws, such as the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. Any actions taken by the CFPB could result in requirements to alter or cease offering affected products and services, make them less attractive, and restrict our ability to offer them, in addition to increasing our regulatory and compliance costs. To the extent the Dodd-Frank Act impacts the operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of unaffiliated financial institutions with whom we transact business, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce their capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with us.In December 2013, the final version of the Volcker Rule was adopted (see Item 1, “Regulation,” in this report for discussion of the Volcker Rule) and became effective April 1, 2014. We were required to comply with the Volcker Rule’s provisions starting on July 21, 2015. Although we have not historically engaged in significant levels of proprietary trading for our own trading account, due to our underwriting and market making activities, the Volcker Rule will likely adversely affect our results of operations through increased operational and compliance costs, possible reductions in our trading revenues, and changes to our principal capital private equity investments.The Basel III capital standards will impose additional capital and other requirements on us that could decrease our competitiveness and profitability.In July 2013, the Fed, the OCC and the FDIC released final U.S. Basel III regulatory capital rules, which implemented the global regulatory capital reforms of Basel III and certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. These rules increase the quantity and quality of regulatory capital, establish a capital conservation buffer, and make selected changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets. The regulatory capital rule became effective for us January 1, 2015, subject to a phase-in period for several of its provisions, including the new minimum capital ratio requirements, the capital conservation buffer, and the regulatory capital adjustments and deductions. The increased capital requirements could restrict our ability to grow during favorable market conditions or require us to raise additional capital. As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects could be adversely affected. We continue to evaluate the impact of the capital rules on both RJ Bank and RJF.27IndexFailure to comply with regulatory capital requirements primarily applicable to RJF, RJ Bank or our broker-dealer subsidiaries would significantly harm our business.RJF and RJ Bank are subject to various regulatory and capital requirements administered by various federal regulators, and, accordingly, must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of RJF and RJ Bank’s assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. The capital amounts and classification for both RJF and RJ Bank are also subject to qualitative judgments by U. S. federal regulators based on components of our capital, risk-weightings of assets, off-balance sheet transactions, and other factors. Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require RJF and RJ Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of Total and Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets, Tier 1 capital to average assets (as defined in the regulations), and under rules defined in Basel III, Common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could harm either RJF or RJ Bank’s operations and our financial condition.As more fully discussed in Item 1, “Regulation,” in this report, RJF is required to perform annual stress tests using certain scenarios provided by the Fed. While we believe that both the quality and magnitude of our capital base is sufficient to support our current operations given our risk profile, the results of the stress testing process may affect our approach to managing and deploying capital.Additionally, as RJF is a holding company, it depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund payments of its obligations, including debt service. We are subject to the SEC’s uniform net capital rule (Rule 15c3-1) and FINRA’s net capital rule, which may limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital from our broker-dealer subsidiaries. The uniform net capital rule sets the minimum level of net capital that a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that a portion of its assets be relatively liquid. FINRA may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if resulting net capital falls below its requirements. In addition, our Canada-based broker-dealer subsidiary is subject to similar limitations under applicable regulation in that jurisdiction by IIROC. Regulatory capital requirements applicable to some of our significant subsidiaries may impede access to funds the holding company needs to make payments on any such obligations.See Note 26 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for further information on regulations and capital requirements.We operate in a highly regulated industry in which future developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition.The securities industry is subject to extensive and constantly changing regulation, and broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including, but not limited to, sales and trading methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of clients’ funds and securities, capital structure of securities firms, anti-money laundering efforts, recordkeeping, and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. A violation of any of these laws or regulations could subject us to: civil and criminal liability; sanctions, which could include the revocation of our subsidiaries’ registrations as investment advisors or broker-dealers; the revocation of the licenses of our financial advisors; censures; fines; or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business. Any of those events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. The majority of our affiliated financial advisors are independent contractors. Legislative or regulatory action that redefines the criteria for determining whether a person is an employee or an independent contractor could materially impact our relationships with our advisors and our business, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations.We are subject to financial holding company regulatory reporting requirements, including the maintenance of certain risk-based regulatory capital levels that could impact various capital allocation decisions of one or more of our businesses. A failure to satisfy the risk-based regulatory capital levels could require us to halt certain activities permitted under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. However, due to our strong current capital position, we do not anticipate that these capital level requirements will have any negative impact on our future business activities. See the section entitled “Business - Regulation” of Item 1 in this report for additional information.As a financial holding company, we are regulated by the Fed. RJ Bank is regulated by the OCC, the Fed, the CFPB, and the FDIC. This oversight includes, but is not limited to, scrutiny with respect to affiliate transactions and compliance with consumer regulations. The economic and political environment over the past several years has caused increased attention on the regulation of the financial services industry, including many proposals for new rules. Any new rules issued by U.S. regulators that oversee the financial services industry could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our 28Indexbusiness, financial condition, and results of operations. We also may be adversely affected as a result of changes in federal, state, or foreign tax laws, or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. The SEC has proposed certain measures that would establish a new framework to replace the requirements of Rule 12b-1 under the 1940 Act, with respect to how mutual funds pay fees to cover the costs of selling and marketing their shares. The staff of the SEC’s Office of Compliance, Inspections and Examinations has indicated that it is reviewing the use of fund assets to pay for fees to sub-transfer agents and sub-administrators for services that may be deemed to be distribution-related. Any adoption of such measures would be phased in over a number of years. As these measures are neither final nor undergoing implementation throughout the financial services industry, their impact cannot be predicted at this time. As this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results. Asset management businesses have experienced a number of highly publicized regulatory inquiries, which have resulted in increased scrutiny within the industry and new rules and regulations for mutual funds, investment advisors, and broker-dealers. As some of our wholly owned subsidiaries are registered as investment advisors with the SEC, increased regulatory scrutiny and rulemaking initiatives may result in augmented operational and compliance costs, or the assessment of significant fines or penalties against our asset management business, and may otherwise limit our ability to engage in certain activities. It is not possible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations, or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. Conformance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. For example, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC was charged with considering whether broker-dealers should be subject to a standard of care similar to the fiduciary standard applicable to registered investment advisors. It is not clear whether the SEC will determine that a heightened standard of conduct is appropriate for broker-dealers; however, any such standard, if mandated, would likely require us to review our product and service offerings and implement certain changes, as well as require that we incur additional regulatory costs in order to ensure compliance.In addition, the U.S. and foreign governments have recently taken regulatory actions impacting the investment management industry, and may continue to take further actions, including expanding current or enacting new standards, requirements and rules that may be applicable to us and our subsidiaries. For example, several states and municipalities in the United States have recently adopted “pay-to-play” rules, which could limit our ability to charge advisory fees. Such “pay-to-play” rules could affect the profitability of that portion of our business. Additionally, the use of “soft dollars,” where a portion of commissions paid to broker-dealers in connection with the execution of trades also pays for research and other services provided to advisors, is periodically reexamined and may in the future be limited or modified. A substantial portion of the research relied on by our investment management business in the investment decision making process is generated internally by our investment analysts and external research, including external research paid for with soft dollars. This external research generally is used for information gathering or verification purposes, and includes broker-provided research, as well as third party provided databases and research services. If the use of soft dollars is limited, we may have to bear some of these additional costs. Furthermore, new regulations regarding the management of hedge funds and the use of certain investment products may impact our investment management business and result in increased costs. For example, many regulators around the world adopted disclosure and reporting requirements relating to the hedge fund businesses or other businesses, and changes to the laws, rules and regulations in the United States related to the over-the-counter swaps and derivatives markets require additional registration, recordkeeping and reporting obligations.See the section entitled “Business - Regulation” within Item 1 in this report for additional information regarding our regulatory environment and Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” in this report regarding our approaches to managing regulatory risk. Regulatory actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.RJ Bank is subject to the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to penalties.The CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other U.S. federal fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The U.S. Department of Justice and other federal agencies, including the CFPB, are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful challenge to an institution’s performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil monetary penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity and restrictions on expansion activity. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution’s performance under fair lending laws by bringing private class action litigation.Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS