ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors That May Affect Future ResultsOur operating results and financial condition could be harmed if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated.Visibility into our markets is limited. Our quarterly sales and operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast and may be cancelled by our customers. In addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future fiscal quarters are often based on the expected seasonality of our markets. However, the markets we serve do not always experience the seasonality that we expect. Any decline in our customers' markets or in general economic conditions would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. Also, if our customers' markets decline, we may not be able to collect on outstanding amounts due to us. Such declines could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price, and could limit our profitability. Also, in such an environment, pricing pressures could intensify. Since a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to sales, research and development and manufacturing costs, if we were unable to respond quickly enough these pricing pressures could further reduce our operating margins.If we do not introduce successful new products and services in a timely manner to address increased competition through frequent new product and service introductions, rapid technological changes and changing industry standards, our products and services will become obsolete, and our operating results will suffer.We generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by increased competition through frequent new product and service introductions, rapid technological changes and changing industry standards. In addition, many of the markets in which we operate are seasonal. Without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. The success of our new products and services will depend on several factors, including our ability to:•properly identify customer needs;•innovate and develop new technologies, services and applications;•successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner;•manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time;•differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings;•price our products competitively;•anticipate our competitors' development of new products, services or technological innovations; and•control product quality in our manufacturing process.Uncertain general economic conditions may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.Our business is sensitive to negative changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the U.S. Slower global economic growth and uncertainty in the markets in which we operate may adversely impact our business resulting in:19Table of Contents •reduced demand for our products, delays in the shipment of orders, or increases in order cancellations;•increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories;•increased price pressure for our products and services; and•greater risk of impairment to the value, and a detriment to the liquidity, of our investment portfolio.Failure to adjust our purchases due to changing market conditions or failure to estimate our customers' demand could adversely affect our income.Our income could be harmed if we are unable to adjust our purchases to reflect market fluctuations, including those caused by the seasonal nature of the markets in which we operate. The sale of our products and services are dependent, to a large degree, on customers whose industries are subject to seasonal trends in the demand for their products. During a market upturn, we may not be able to purchase sufficient supplies or components to meet increasing product demand, which could materially affect our results. In the past we have seen a shortage of parts for some of our products. In addition, some of the parts that require custom design are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. Should a supplier cease manufacturing such a component, we would be forced to reengineer our product. In addition to discontinuing parts, suppliers may also extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. In order to secure components for the production of products, we may continue to enter into non-cancelable purchase commitments with vendors, or at times make advance payments to suppliers, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to declining market demands. Prior commitments of this type have resulted in an excess of parts when demand for our communications and electronics products has decreased. If demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges.Demand for some of our products and services depends on capital spending policies of our customers, research and development budgets and on government funding policies.Our customers include pharmaceutical companies, laboratories, universities, healthcare providers, government agencies and public and private research institutions. Fluctuations in the research and development budgets at these organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. Many factors, including public policy spending priorities, available resources, mergers and consolidation, spending priorities, institutional and governmental budgetary policies and product and economic cycles, have a significant effect on the capital spending policies of these entities. Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, consolidation, spending priorities, general economic conditions and institutional and governmental budgetary policies. The timing and amount of revenues from customers that rely on government funding or research may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast. These policies in turn can have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. If demand for our products and services is adversely affected, our revenue and operating results would suffer.Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations.Because we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a majority of our total revenue. In addition, many of our employees, contract manufacturers, suppliers, job functions and manufacturing facilities are located outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including:•interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers;•changes in foreign currency exchange rates;•changes in a specific country's or region's political, economic or other conditions;•trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;•negative consequences from changes in tax laws including changes to U.S. tax legislation that could materially increase our effective tax rate;•difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;•differing labor regulations;•differing protection of intellectual property;•unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and•geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war.20Table of Contents We centralized most of our accounting processes to two locations: India and Malaysia. These processes include general accounting, cost accounting, accounts payable and accounts receivables functions. If conditions change in those countries, it may adversely affect operations, including impairing our ability to pay our suppliers and collect our receivables. Our results of operations, as well as our liquidity, may be adversely affected and possible delays may occur in reporting financial results.Additionally, we must comply with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and anti-competition regulations. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our business conduct and on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, our ability to attract and retain employees, our international operations, our business and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. In addition, although the majority of our products are priced and paid for in U.S. dollars, a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, are paid in local currencies. Our hedging programs reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, within any given twelve month period, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, and therefore fluctuations in exchange rates, including those caused by currency controls, could impact our business operating results and financial condition by resulting in lower revenue or increased expenses. However, for expenses beyond that twelve month period, our hedging strategy does not mitigate our exposure. In addition, our currency hedging programs involve third party financial institutions as counterparties. The weakening or failure of financial institution counterparties may adversely affect our hedging programs and our financial condition through, among other things, a reduction in available counterparties, increasingly unfavorable terms, and the failure of the counterparties to perform under hedging contracts.Our business will suffer if we are not able to retain and hire key personnel.Our future success depends partly on the continued service of our key research, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing, executive and administrative personnel. If we fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these personnel, we will not be able to maintain or expand our business. The markets in which we operate are very dynamic, and our businesses continue to respond with reorganizations, workforce reductions and site closures. We believe our pay levels are very competitive within the regions that we operate. However, there is an intense competition for certain highly technical specialties in geographic areas where we continue to recruit, and it may become more difficult to retain our key employees, especially in light of our ongoing restructuring efforts.Our acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures may result in financial results that are different than expected.In the normal course of business, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties relating to possible acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures, and generally expect to complete several transactions per year. For example in the past we completed various acquisitions, including Dako A/S. As a result of such transactions, our financial results may differ from our own or the investment community's expectations in a given fiscal quarter, or over the long term. Such transactions often have post-closing arrangements including but not limited to post-closing adjustments, transition services, escrows or indemnifications, the financial results of which can be difficult to predict. In addition, acquisitions and strategic alliances may require us to integrate a different company culture, management team and business infrastructure. We may have difficulty developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company in a way that enhances the performance of our combined businesses or product lines to realize the value from expected synergies. Depending on the size and complexity of an acquisition, our successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors, including:•the retention of key employees;•the management of facilities and employees in different geographic areas;•the retention of key customers;•the compatibility of our sales programs and facilities with those of the acquired company; and•the compatibility of our existing infrastructure with that of an acquired company.In addition, effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. The integration of acquired businesses is likely to result in our systems and controls becoming increasingly complex and more difficult to manage. We devote significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate control over our financial processes and reporting in the future, especially in the context of acquisitions of other businesses. Any difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses into our control system could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause 21Table of Contents investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our access to capital.A successful divestiture depends on various factors, including our ability to:•effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to the purchaser;•identify and separate the intellectual property to be divested from the intellectual property that we wish to keep; and•reduce fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets or business.In addition, if customers of the divested business do not receive the same level of service from the new owners, this may adversely affect our other businesses to the extent that these customers also purchase other Agilent products. All of these efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. Further, if market conditions or other factors lead us to change our strategic direction, we may not realize the expected value from such transactions. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively impacted.Integrating Dako A/S may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and our business and financial condition may be materially impaired.We may not achieve the desired benefits from our acquisition and integration of Dako. In addition, the operation of Dako within Agilent could be a difficult, costly and time-consuming process that involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: •difficulties in the assimilation of different corporate cultures, practices and sales and distribution methodologies, as well as in the assimilation and retention of geographically dispersed, decentralized operations and personnel;•increased exposure to certain governmental regulations and compliance requirements; and•the use of cash resources and increased capital expenditures on additional investment or research and development activities in excess of our current expectations, which could offset any synergies resulting from the Dako acquisition and limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases and retirement of outstanding debt. Even if we are able to successfully operate Dako within Agilent, we may not be able to realize the revenue and other synergies and growth that we anticipate from the acquisition in the time frame that we currently expect, and the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than what we currently expect. As a result, the Dako acquisition and integration may not contribute to our earnings as expected, we may not achieve expected revenue synergies or our return on invested capital targets when expected, or at all, and we may not achieve the other anticipated strategic and financial benefits of this transaction.Our customers and we are subject to various governmental regulations, compliance with or changes in such regulations may cause us to incur significant expenses, and if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain regulations, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties.Our customers and we are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations, including but not limited to health and safety, packaging, product content, labor and import/export regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations, product recalls or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. In addition, because many of our products are regulated or sold into regulated industries, we must comply with additional regulations in marketing our products. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. Any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products, force us to modify our products to comply with new regulations or increase our costs of producing these products. If demand for our products is adversely affected or our costs increase, our business would suffer.Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the International Standards Organization, as well as regulation by other agencies such as the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). We also must comply with work safety rules. If we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our businesses could be harmed.22Table of Contents We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and certain similar foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.A number of our products from our chemical analysis and life sciences and diagnostics businesses are subject to regulation by the FDA and certain similar foreign regulatory agencies. In addition, a number of our products may be in the future subject to regulation by the FDA and certain similar foreign regulatory agencies. These regulations govern a wide variety of product related activities, from quality management, design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. If we or any of our suppliers or distributors fail to comply with FDA and other applicable regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face, among other things, warning letters, adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; investigations or notices of non-compliance, fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; import or export restrictions; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities or the imposition of operating restrictions; increased difficulty in obtaining required FDA clearances or approvals or foreign equivalents; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; or the inability to sell our products. Any such FDA actions could disrupt our business and operations, lead to significant remedial costs and have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.In August 2013, Dako Denmark A/S received a warning letter from the FDA relating to its quality management processes at our Glostrup facility. Although we are committed to addressing the issues raised by the FDA, there can be no assurance that the FDA will be satisfied with the steps we have taken to address the issues or that the FDA will not raise additional areas of concern. We may be subject to additional regulatory action by the FDA, including import bans, seizures, injunction and/or civil penalties and any such actions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position and results of operations.Some of our chemical analysis and life sciences and diagnostics products are exposed to particular complex regulations such as regulations of toxic substances and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our business.Some of our chemical analysis products and related consumables marketed by our chemical analysis and life sciences and diagnostics businesses are used in conjunction with chemicals whose manufacture, processing, distribution and notification requirements are regulated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) under the Toxic Substances Control Act, and by regulatory bodies in other countries with similar laws. The Toxic Substances Control Act regulations govern, among other things, the testing, manufacture, processing and distribution of chemicals, the testing of regulated chemicals for their effects on human health and safety and import and export of chemicals. The Toxic Substances Control Act prohibits persons from manufacturing any chemical in the U.S. that has not been reviewed by EPA for its effect on health and safety, and placed on an EPA inventory of chemical substances. We must ensure conformance of the manufacturing, processing, distribution of and notification about these chemicals to these laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in all applicable countries as these requirements change. If we fail to comply with the notification, record-keeping and other requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, then we could be made to pay civil penalties, face criminal prosecution and, in some cases, be prohibited from distributing or marketing our products until the products or component substances are brought into compliance.Our business may suffer if we fail to comply with government contracting laws and regulations.We derive a portion of our revenues from direct and indirect sales to U.S., state, local, and foreign governments and their respective agencies. Such contracts are subject to various procurement laws and regulations, and contract provisions relating to their formation, administration and performance. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations or provisions in our government contracts could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, or suspension from future government contracting. If our government contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our business could suffer.Our retirement and post retirement pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect our future results of operations and cash flows.We have significant retirement and post retirement pension plans assets and obligations. The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact our plan expenses and funding obligations. Significant decreases in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets will increase our funding obligations, and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.The impact of consolidation and acquisitions of competitors is difficult to predict and may harm our business. The life sciences industry is intensely competitive and has been subject to increasing consolidation. Consolidation in our industries could result in existing competitors increasing their market share through business combinations and result in stronger 23Table of Contents competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to compete successfully in increasingly consolidated industries and cannot predict with certainty how industry consolidation will affect our competitors or us.If we are unable to successfully manage the consolidation and streamlining of our manufacturing operations, we may not achieve desired efficiencies and our ability to deliver products to our customers could be disrupted. Although we utilize manufacturing facilities throughout the world, we have been consolidating, and may continue to consolidate, our manufacturing operations to certain of our plants to achieve efficiencies and gross margin improvements. Additionally, we typically consolidate the production of products from our acquisitions into our supply chain and manufacturing processes, which are technically complex and require expertise to operate. If we are unable to establish processes to efficiently and effectively produce high quality products in the consolidated locations, we may not achieve the anticipated synergies and production may be disrupted, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.Our operating results may suffer if our manufacturing capacity does not match the demand for our products.Because we cannot immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to rapidly changing market conditions, when demand does not meet our expectations, our manufacturing capacity will likely exceed our production requirements. If, during a general market upturn or an upturn in one of our segments, we cannot increase our manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner which could lead to order cancellations, contract breaches or indemnification obligations. This inability could materially and adversely limit our ability to improve our results. By contrast, if during an economic downturn we had excess manufacturing capacity, then our fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity would adversely affect our income, margins, and operating results.Dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourcing other portions of our supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation. Dependence on outsourced information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively.As part of our efforts to streamline operations and to cut costs, we outsource aspects of our manufacturing processes and other functions and continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. If our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and our reputation could suffer. For example, during a market upturn, our contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our demand requirements, which may preclude us from fulfilling our customers' orders on a timely basis. The ability of these manufacturers to perform is largely outside of our control. Additionally, changing or replacing our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers could cause disruptions or delays. In addition, we outsource significant portions of our information technology ("IT") and other administrative functions. Since IT is critical to our operations, any failure to perform on the part of our IT providers could impair our ability to operate effectively. In addition to the risks outlined above, problems with manufacturing or IT outsourcing could result in lower revenues, unexecuted efficiencies, and impact our results of operations and our stock price. Much of our outsourcing takes place in developing countries and, as a result, may be subject to geopolitical uncertainty.Environmental contamination from past operations could subject us to unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties involved and environmental contamination caused by ongoing operations could subject us to substantial liabilities in the future.Certain properties transferred to Keysight as part of the separation are undergoing remediation by the Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP") for subsurface contaminations that were known at the time of our separation from HP. HP has agreed to retain the liability for this subsurface contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify Keysight with respect to claims arising out of that contamination. HP will have access to those Keysight properties to perform remediation. While HP has agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at those properties, remediation activities and subsurface contamination may require Keysight to incur unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. We cannot be sure that Keysight will not seek additional reimbursement from us for that interference or unreimbursed costs. We cannot be sure that HP will continue to fulfill its indemnification or remediation obligations, in which case Keysight may seek indemnification from us. In addition, the determination of the existence and cost of any additional contamination caused by us prior to the separation could involve costly and time-consuming negotiations and litigation.Other than those properties currently undergoing remediation by HP, we have agreed to indemnify HP, with respect to any liability associated with contamination from past operations, and Keysight, with respect to any liability associated with contamination prior to the separation, at , respectively, properties transferred from HP to us and properties transferred by us to Keysight. While we are not aware of any material liabilities associated with any potential subsurface contamination at any of 24Table of Contents those properties, subsurface contamination may exist, and we may be exposed to material liability as a result of the existence of that contamination.Our current and historical manufacturing processes involve, or have involved, the use of substances regulated under various international, federal, state and local laws governing the environment. As a result, we may become subject to liabilities for environmental contamination, and these liabilities may be substantial. While we have divested substantially all of our semiconductor related businesses to Avago and Verigy and regardless of indemnification arrangements with those parties, we may still become subject to liabilities for historical environmental contamination related to those businesses. Although our policy is to apply strict standards for environmental protection at our sites inside and outside the U.S., even if the sites outside the U.S. are not subject to regulations imposed by foreign governments, we may not be aware of all conditions that could subject us to liability.As part of our acquisition of Varian, we assumed the liabilities of Varian, including Varian's costs and potential liabilities for environmental matters. One such cost is our obligation, along with the obligation of Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. ("VSEA") (under the terms of a Distribution Agreement between Varian, VSEA and Varian Medical Systems, Inc. ("VMS")) to each indemnify VMS for one-third of certain costs (after adjusting for any insurance proceeds and tax benefits recognized or realized by VMS for such costs) relating to (a) environmental investigation, monitoring and/or remediation activities at certain facilities previously operated by Varian Associates, Inc. ("VAI") and third-party claims made in connection with environmental conditions at those facilities, and (b) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or third-party claims alleging that VAI or VMS is a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA") in connection with certain sites to which VAI allegedly shipped manufacturing waste for recycling, treatment or disposal (the "CERCLA sites"). With respect to the facilities formerly operated by VAI, VMS is overseeing the environmental investigation, monitoring and/or remediation activities, in most cases under the direction of, or in consultation with, federal, state and/or local agencies, and handling third-party claims. VMS is also handling claims relating to the CERCLA sites. Although any ultimate liability arising from environmental- related matters could result in significant expenditures that, if aggregated and assumed to occur within a single fiscal year, could be material to our financial statements, the likelihood of such occurrence is considered remote. Based on information currently available and our best assessment of the ultimate amount and timing of environmental-related events, management believes that the costs of environmental-related matters are unlikely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.New regulations related to “conflict minerals” may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products.In August 2012, the SEC adopted a new rule requiring disclosures by public companies of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. The new rule, which went into effect for calendar year 2013 and requires an annual disclosure report to be filed with the SEC by May 31st, requires companies to perform due diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. While we filed our initial report for calendar year 2013, there are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence in regards to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. In addition, our ongoing implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products. The new rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tin, gold and tungsten. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to the due diligence process of determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. As our supply chain is complex and we use contract manufacturers for some of our products, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. We may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so.Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services.From time to time, third parties may claim that one or more of our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. We analyze and take action in response to such claims on a case by case basis. Any dispute or litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of our technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. A claim of intellectual property infringement could force us to enter into a costly or restrictive license agreement, which might not be available 25Table of Contents under acceptable terms or at all, could require us to redesign our products, which would be costly and time-consuming, and/or could subject us to significant damages or to an injunction against development and sale of certain of our products or services. Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of intellectual property infringement. In certain of our businesses we rely on third party intellectual property licenses and we cannot ensure that these licenses will be available to us in the future on favorable terms or at all.Third parties may infringe our intellectual property and we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights.Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology, including technology we obtained through acquisitions. We rely on various intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish our proprietary rights. If we do not enforce our intellectual property rights successfully our competitive position may suffer which could harm our operating results.Our pending patent applications, and our pending copyright and trademark registration applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. In addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage.We may need to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties. Our competitive position may be harmed if we cannot detect infringement and enforce our intellectual property rights quickly or at all. In some circumstances, we may choose to not pursue enforcement because an infringer has a dominant intellectual property position or for other business reasons. In addition, competitors might avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights or by developing non-infringing competing technologies. Intellectual property rights and our ability to enforce them may be unavailable or limited in some countries which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share and could result in lost revenues. Furthermore, some of our intellectual property is licensed to others which allow them to compete with us using that intellectual property.We are subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. An adverse outcome of any such audit or examination by the IRS or other tax authority could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.We are subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities in various jurisdictions. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from ongoing tax examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. These assessments can require considerable estimates and judgments. Intercompany transactions associated with the sale of inventory, services, intellectual property and cost share arrangements are complex and affect our tax liabilities. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in multiple jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from ongoing tax examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A difference in the ultimate resolution of tax uncertainties from what is currently estimated could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.If tax incentives change or cease to be in effect, our income taxes could increase significantly.Agilent benefits from tax incentives extended to its foreign subsidiaries to encourage investment or employment. Several jurisdictions have granted Agilent tax incentives which require renewal at various times in the future. The incentives are conditioned on achieving various thresholds of investments and employment, or specific types of income. Agilent's taxes could increase if the incentives are not renewed upon expiration. If Agilent cannot or does not wish to satisfy all or parts of the tax incentive conditions, we may lose the related tax incentive and could be required to refund tax incentives previously realized. As a result, our effective tax rate could be higher than it would have been had we maintained the benefits of the tax incentives.We have substantial cash requirements in the United States while most of our cash is generated outside of the United States. The failure to maintain a level of cash sufficient to address our cash requirements in the United States could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Although the cash generated in the United States from our operations should cover our normal operating requirements and debt service requirements, a substantial amount of additional cash is required for special purposes such as the maturity of our debt obligations, our stock repurchase program, our declared dividends and acquisitions of third parties. Our business operating results, financial condition, and strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted if we were unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through the efficient and timely repatriations of overseas cash or other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost.26Table of Contents We have outstanding debt and may incur other debt in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We currently have outstanding an aggregate principal amount of $2.7 billion in senior unsecured notes, including $1.1 billion in Keysight senior unsecured notes, and a $42 million secured mortgage. We also are a party to a five-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility which expires in September 2019 and under which we may borrow up to $400 million and a Danish Krone denominated credit facility equivalent to $9 million. We may borrow additional amounts in the future and use the proceeds from any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, other future acquisitions, expansion of our business or repurchases of our outstanding shares of common stock. Keysight is a party to a five-year revolving credit facility which expires in October 2019 for $300 million, initially guaranteed by us. The guarantee was terminated upon the completion of the separation of Keysight on November 1, 2014.Our incurrence of this debt, and increases in our aggregate levels of debt, may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition by, among other things: •increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive pressures and to adverse economic and industry conditions; •requiring the dedication of an increased portion of our expected cash from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures, acquisitions and stock repurchases; and •limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. Our current revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to create liens on our assets and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, and requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. In addition, the indenture governing our senior notes contains covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. If we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable.If we suffer a loss to our factories, facilities or distribution system due to catastrophe, our operations could be seriously harmed.Our factories, facilities and distribution system are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. In particular, several of our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquake due to their locations. Our production facilities, headquarters and Agilent Technologies Laboratories in California, and our production facilities in Japan, are all located in areas with above-average seismic activity. If any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. If such a disruption were to occur, we could breach agreements, our reputation could be harmed, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, since we have consolidated our manufacturing facilities, we are more likely to experience an interruption to our operations in the event of a catastrophe in any one location. Although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. Also, our third party insurance coverage will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost and our decisions with respect to risk retention. Economic conditions and uncertainties in global markets may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain third party insurance. If our third party insurance coverage is adversely affected, or to the extent we have elected to self-insure, we may be at a greater risk that our operations will be harmed by a catastrophic loss.If we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems, or if we fail to implement new systems and software successfully, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on several centralized information technology systems throughout our company to provide products and services, keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. Our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. If we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, security breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage.27Table of Contents Adverse conditions in the global banking industry and credit markets may adversely impact the value of our cash investments or impair our liquidity.As of October 31 2014, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $3.0 billion invested or held in a mix of money market funds, time deposit accounts and bank demand deposit accounts. Disruptions in the financial markets may, in some cases, result in an inability to access assets such as money market funds that traditionally have been viewed as highly liquid. Any failure of our counterparty financial institutions or funds in which we have invested may adversely impact our cash and cash equivalent positions and, in turn, our results and financial condition.We could incur significant liability if the distribution of Keysight common stock to our shareholders is determined to be a taxable transaction.We have received an opinion from outside tax counsel to the effect that the separation and distribution of Keysight qualifies as a transaction that is described in Sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code. The opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Keysight and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, our shareholders and we may not be able to rely on the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel we have received, the IRS could determine on audit that the separation is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion. If the separation is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our shareholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. We may be exposed to claims and liabilities as a result of the separation.We entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements with Keysight to govern the separation and the relationship of the two companies going forward. These agreements provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations and could lead to disputes between us. The indemnity rights we have against Keysight under the agreements may not be sufficient to protect us. In addition, our indemnity obligations to Keysight may be significant and these risks could negatively affect our financial condition.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments