Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe are substantially dependent on revenues from our four principal products. Our current and future revenues depend upon continued sales of our four principal products, AVONEX, TYSABRI, TECFIDERA and RITUXAN. Although we have developed and continue to develop additional products for commercial introduction, we may be substantially dependent on sales from these products for many years. Any negative developments relating to any of these products, such as safety or efficacy issues, the introduction or greater acceptance of competing products, including biosimilars, generics or related prodrug derivatives, constraints on product pricing or price increases, changes in reimbursement policies of third parties or adverse regulatory or legislative developments, may reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. We and our competitors are introducing additional multiple sclerosis products in an increasingly crowded market and if those products have a similar or more attractive profile in terms of efficacy, convenience or safety, future sales of AVONEX, TYSABRI or TECFIDERA could be adversely affected. Sales of RITUXAN may be adversely affected by commercialized products such as GAZYVA, TREANDA and ARZERRA, and potentially other anti-CD20 and other molecules in development to treat the indications approved for RITUXAN. If we fail to successfully execute on our commercialization efforts for TECFIDERA, our future revenue growth and results of operations may be adversely affected, and our stock price may decline. We remain in the early stages of our commercial launch of TECFIDERA. If we are unable to successfully execute on our commercialization plans for TECFIDERA, our future revenue growth and results of operations may be adversely affected, and could cause a decline in our stock price. Factors that may prevent us from successfully commercializing TECFIDERA include:•intense competition in the increasingly crowded MS market, including the possibility of future competition from generic versions of TECFIDERA or related prodrug derivatives or from off-label use by physicians of therapies indicated for other conditions to treat MS patients; •our significant reliance on third parties to manufacture TECFIDERA, including the risks these third parties may not be able to supply TECFIDERA in a timely and cost-effective manner or in compliance with applicable regulations or otherwise fail to have sufficient aggregate manufacturing capacity to satisfy demand; •our sales and marketing efforts may not result in product revenues that meet the investment community's expectations for TECFIDERA;•additional risks associated with our anticipated launches of TECFIDERA in the E.U., including the impact of delays and the effects of a slower rollout of TECFIDERA across European countries over an extended number of months, the impact of competitive oral MS therapies approved in the E.U. prior to TECFIDERA, and our ability to obtain appropriate pricing and reimbursement for TECFIDERA in countries throughout the E.U.; •damage to our sales and reputation, and physician and patient confidence in TECFIDERA relating to any adverse experiences or events that may occur with patients treated with TECFIDERA, including any PML cases that may develop in patients previously treated with TYSABRI that switch to therapy with TECFIDERA; and •the other risks related to commercialization of new products described throughout these “Risk Factors”.We remain in the early stages of our commercial launch of TECFIDERA and there is a limited amount of prescription, patient compliance and retention and other data available to date. These limited results may not be indicative of future performance or trends or the impact of TECFIDERA on our other products or the products of our competitors.If we are unable to adequately protect and enforce our data, intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our competitors may take advantage of our development efforts or our acquired technology. We have filed numerous patent applications in the U.S. and various other countries seeking protection of the processes, products and other inventions originating from our research and development. Patents have been issued on many of these applications. We have also obtained rights to various patents and patent applications under licenses with third parties, which provide for the payment of royalties by us. The ultimate degree of patent protection that will be afforded to drug and biotechnology products and processes, including ours, in the U.S. and in other important markets remains uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts and lawmakers in these countries. Our patents may not afford us substantial protection or commercial benefit. Similarly, our pending patent applications or patent applications licensed from third parties may not ultimately be granted as patents and we may not prevail if patents that have been issued or licensed to us are challenged in court. In addition, court decisions or patent office regulations that place additional restrictions on patent claim scope or that facilitate patent challenges could also reduce our ability to protect our 22Table of Contentsintellectual property rights. If we cannot prevent others from exploiting our inventions, we will not derive the benefit from them that we currently expect. Our products may qualify for regulatory exclusivity, which may consist of regulatory data protection and market protection. Although the World Trade Organization's agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS) requires signatory countries to provide regulatory exclusivity to innovative pharmaceutical products, implementation and enforcement varies widely from country to country. Failure to qualify for regulatory data or market protection, or failure to obtain or maintain the extent or duration of such protections that we expect in each of the markets for our products, could affect our revenue for our products or our decision on whether to market our products in a particular country or countries or could otherwise have an adverse impact on our results of operations.Our drugs and biologics are susceptible to competition from generics and biosimilars in many markets. The legal and regulatory pathways leading to approval of generics and biosimilars vary widely from country to country and in some cases are not well defined. Manufacturers of generics and biosimilars may choose to launch or attempt to launch their products before the expiration of patent or regulatory data or market protection and to concurrently challenge the patent and regulatory protections covering our products. In the U.S., a high proportion of all approved innovative drugs are met with generic challenge as early as four years following approval. In the E.U., drugs that do not have regulatory exclusivity may face immediate generic competition. Generic versions of drugs and biosimilars are likely to be sold at substantially lower prices than branded products because the generic or biosimilar manufacturer would not have to recoup the research and development and marketing costs associated with the branded product. Accordingly, the introduction of generic or biosimilar versions of our marketed products likely would significantly reduce both the price that we receive for such marketed products and the volume of products that we sell, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary and confidential information and technology in the research, development and manufacture of our products. We cannot ensure that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent information and technology or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect such rights. We protect such information principally through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, scientists whose research we sponsor and other advisers. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for our unpatented confidential information in the event of use or disclosure of such information. Sales of TYSABRI are uncertain due to restrictions on use and safety warnings. Sales of TYSABRI are uncertain given the significant restrictions on use and the significant safety warnings in the label, including the risk of developing progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), a serious brain infection. The risk of developing PML increases with prior immunosuppressant use, which may cause patients who have previously received immunosuppressants or their physicians to refrain from using or prescribing TYSABRI. The risk of developing PML also increases with longer treatment duration, which may cause prescribing physicians or patients to suspend treatment with TYSABRI. The risk of developing PML also increases with exposure to JC virus, which may be indicated by the presence of anti-JCV antibodies. Patients testing positive for anti-JCV antibodies or their physicians may refrain from using or prescribing TYSABRI. Increased incidences of PML could limit sales growth, prompt regulatory review, require significant changes to the label or result in market withdrawal. Additional regulatory restrictions on the use of TYSABRI or safety-related label changes, including enhanced risk management programs, whether as a result of additional cases of PML, changes to the criteria for confirming PML diagnosis or otherwise, may significantly reduce expected revenues and require significant expense and management time to address the associated legal and regulatory issues. Increased competition, including competition from our own products, could also negatively impact future sales. As we continue to research and develop protocols and therapies intended to reduce risk and improve outcomes of PML in patients, regulatory authorities may not agree with our perspective on such protocols and therapies. Our efforts at stratifying patients into groups with lower or higher risk for developing PML may not result in corresponding changes to the TYSABRI label. Furthermore, our risk stratification efforts may have an adverse impact on prescribing behavior and reduce sales of TYSABRI. The potential utility of the JC virus antibody assay as a risk stratification tool may be diminished as a result of both the assay's false negative rate as well as the possibility that a patient who initially tests negative for the JC virus antibody may acquire the JC virus after testing. An increase in the recommended frequency of retesting with the assay or in the assay's sensitivity may exacerbate these risks or otherwise adversely impact prescribing behavior. In addition, new data may challenge the assumptions or estimates underlying our risk stratification tools, including estimates of the prevalence of JC virus in the general population. 23Table of ContentsWe may be unable to successfully commercialize new product candidates.We have filed or are preparing to file applications for marketing approval for multiple product candidates for the treatment of MS and the treatment of hemophilia. These late-stage product candidates will impact our prospects for additional revenue growth and will require significant pre-launch investments that may not be recovered if they do not receive marketing approval. Our ability to successfully commercialize a product candidate that receives marketing approval depends on a number of factors, including:•the medical community's acceptance of the product and the confidence of patients in the product;•the effectiveness of our sales force and marketing efforts; •the size of the patient population and our ability to identify new patients; •pricing and the extent of reimbursement from third party payors; •the ability to obtain and maintain data or market exclusivity for our products in the relevant indication(s);•our ability to offer products that have convenient dosing and delivery methods;•the availability or introduction of competing treatments that are deemed more effective, safer, more convenient, or less expensive; •manufacturing the product in a timely and cost-effective manner; and •compliance with complex regulatory requirements.Our ability to successfully commercialize ELOCTATE and ALPROLIX, our long-lasting blood clotting factor candidates, may also be impacted by additional factors such as:•the hemophilia treatment market is highly competitive, with current treatments marketed by companies that have substantially greater financial resources and marketing expertise, and we may have difficulty penetrating this highly competitive market unless our long-lasting blood clotting factor candidates are regarded as offering substantial benefits over current treatments;•we do not have marketing experience within the hemophilia treatment market or well-established relationships with the associated medical and scientific community; •filing of our planned marketing authorization applications with the EMA requires the submission of positive pediatric data from our ongoing global pediatric studies with our applications, and there can be no assurance that we will receive such positive data; and•several companies are working to develop additional treatments for hemophilia and may obtain marketing approval of their treatments before we do, which has the potential to bar our application with the EMA under operation of the EMA’s Orphan Medicines Regulation; and •other companies may introduce longer-lasting or more efficacious, safer, cheaper or more convenient treatments than our long-lasting blood clotting factor candidates.We depend, to a significant extent, on reimbursement from third party payors and a reduction in the extent of reimbursement could reduce our product sales and revenue. Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Changes in government regulations or private third-party payors' reimbursement policies, as well as pressure by employers on private health insurance plans to reduce costs, may reduce reimbursement for our products and adversely affect our future results. In addition, when a new medical product is approved, the availability of government and private reimbursement for that product is uncertain, as is the amount for which that product will be reimbursed. We cannot predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for our product candidates. 24Table of ContentsIn the U.S., federal and state legislatures, health agencies and third-party payors continue to focus on containing the cost of health care. Legislative and regulatory proposals and enactments to reform health care insurance programs could significantly influence the manner in which our products are prescribed and purchased. For example, provisions of the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) have resulted in changes in the way health care is paid for by both governmental and private insurers, which has had and is expected to continue to have a significant impact on our business. These changes include, among other things, increased Medicare rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, annual fees and taxes on manufacturers of certain branded prescription drugs, the requirement that manufacturers participate in a discount program for certain outpatient drugs under Medicare Part D and the expansion of the number of hospitals eligible for discounts. The U.S. federal government has also implemented spending cuts under the Budget Control Act of 2011, known as “sequestration”, which included a 2% reduction in Medicare reimbursements rates to providers such as physicians, hospitals and drug plans. These cuts, which reduce payments to health care providers for Medicare Part B drugs, could affect decisions regarding prescribing patterns or site of care, which could adversely impact sales of our products such as TYSABRI and RITUXAN, which are administered by infusion. In addition, Medicare Part D plans managing outpatient prescription drugs that are receiving less reimbursement from the government could seek further discounts from manufacturers, which could adversely affect our sales of our Part D drugs, such as AVONEX and TECFIDERA. It is possible that additional federal health care reform measures will be adopted in the future, including as a result of ongoing discussions to reduce the U.S. federal budget deficit to address government finances, any of which could result in increased pricing pressure and reduced reimbursement for our products and otherwise have an adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations.There is also significant economic pressure on state budgets that may result in states increasingly seeking to achieve budget savings through mechanisms that limit coverage or payment for our drugs. In recent years, some states have considered legislation that would control the prices of drugs, including laws to allow importation of pharmaceutical products from lower cost jurisdictions outside the U.S. State Medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. Managed care organizations continue to seek price discounts and, in some cases, to impose restrictions on the coverage of particular drugs. Government efforts to reduce Medicaid expenses may lead to increased use of managed care organizations by Medicaid programs. This may result in managed care organizations influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population and a corresponding constraint on prices and reimbursement for our products. In addition, under the PPACA, as states implement their health care marketplaces or operate under the federal exchange, the impact on drug manufacturers, including us, will depend in part on the formulary and benefit design decisions made by insurance sponsors or plans participating in these programs. It is possible that we may need to provide discounts or rebates to such plans in order to maintain favorable formulary access for our products for this patient population, which could have an adverse impact on our sales and results of operations.In the European Union and some other international markets, the government provides health care at low cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility or reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored health care system. Many countries have announced or implemented measures to reduce health care costs to constrain their overall level of government expenditures. These measures vary by country and may include, among other things, patient access restrictions, suspensions on price increases, prospective and possibly retroactive price reductions and other recoupments and increased mandatory discounts or rebates, recoveries of past price increases, and greater importation of drugs from lower-cost countries to higher-cost countries. These measures have negatively impacted our revenues, and may continue to adversely affect our revenues and results of operations in the future. In addition, certain countries set prices by reference to the prices in other countries where our products are marketed. Thus, our inability to secure adequate prices in a particular country may not only limit the marketing of our products within that country, but may also adversely affect our ability to obtain acceptable prices in other markets. This may create the opportunity for third party cross border trade or influence our decision to sell or not to sell a product, thus adversely affecting our geographic expansion plans and revenues. Adverse safety events can negatively affect our business and stock price. Adverse safety events involving our marketed products may have a negative impact on our commercialization efforts. Discovery of safety issues with our products could cause product liability events, additional regulatory scrutiny and requirements for additional labeling, withdrawal of products from the market and the imposition of fines or criminal penalties. Any of these actions could result in material write-offs of inventory, material impairments of intangible assets, goodwill and fixed assets, material restructuring charges and other adverse impacts on our results of operations. Regulatory authorities have been moving towards more active and transparent pharmacovigilance and are making greater amounts of stand-alone safety information directly available to the public through periodic safety update reports, patient registries and other reporting requirements. The reporting of adverse safety events involving our products or products similar to ours and public rumors about such events could cause our product sales or stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility. 25Table of ContentsOur long-term success depends upon the successful development of product candidates. Our long-term viability and growth will depend upon the successful development of new products from our research and development activities, including products licensed from third parties. Product development is very expensive and involves a high degree of risk. Only a small number of research and development programs result in the commercialization of a product. Success in preclinical work or early stage clinical trials does not ensure that later stage or larger scale clinical trials will be successful. Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. Our ability to complete our clinical trials in a timely fashion depends in large part on a number of key factors including protocol design, regulatory and institutional review board approval, patient enrollment rates, and compliance with extensive current Good Clinical Practices. We have opened clinical sites and are enrolling patients in a number of countries where our experience is more limited, and we are in most cases using the services of third party clinical trial providers which may impact our ability to control the timing, conduct, expense and quality of our clinical trials. If we fail to adequately manage the design, execution and regulatory aspects of our large, complex and diverse clinical trials, our studies and any potential regulatory approvals may be delayed, or we may fail to gain approvals for our product candidates. Clinical trials may indicate that our product candidates lack efficacy, have harmful side effects or raise safety or other concerns that may significantly reduce the likelihood of regulatory approval, result in significant restrictions on use and safety warnings in the approved label, adversely affect placement within the treatment paradigm, or otherwise significantly diminish the commercial potential of the product candidate. Also, positive results in a registrational trial may not be replicated in any subsequent confirmatory trials. Even if later stage clinical trials are successful, regulatory authorities may disagree with our view of the data or require additional studies, may disagree with the endpoints employed in the trials, may fail to approve the facilities or the processes used to manufacture a product candidate, and may fail to approve or delay approval of our product candidates, dosing or delivery methods, or may otherwise grant marketing approval that is more restricted than anticipated, including indications covering narrow patient populations and the imposition of safety monitoring or educational requirements or risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. The occurrence of any such events could result in the incurrence of significant costs and expenses and could otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are able to successfully develop new products, we may make a strategic decision to discontinue development of a product candidate if, for example, we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other opportunities in our pipeline. Similarly, if we successfully develop a new product, but another company is the first to file for marketing approval of a competing orphan drug candidate, that company may ultimately receive marketing exclusivity for its drug candidate, preventing us from commercializing our orphan drug candidate in the applicable market for several years. If we fail to compete effectively, our business and market position would suffer. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry is intensely competitive. We compete in the marketing and sale of our products, the development of new products and processes, the acquisition of rights to new products with commercial potential and the hiring and retention of personnel. We compete with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that have a greater number of products on the market and in the product pipeline, greater financial and other resources and other technological or competitive advantages. One or more of our competitors may benefit from significantly greater sales and marketing capabilities, may develop products that are accepted more widely than ours and may receive patent protection that dominates, blocks or adversely affects our product development or business. We also expect increased competition in the MS market through the introduction of generic versions of COPAXONE following the expected expiration of Teva Pharmaceutical’s patent protection for COPAXONE. In addition, health care reform legislation enacted in the U.S. in 2010 has created a pathway for the FDA to approve biosimilars or follow-on products, which could compete on price and differentiation with a number of our existing products, including AVONEX, TYSABRI and RITUXAN, or products we may market in the future. Biosimilars legislation has also been in place in the E.U. since 2003. In December 2012, guidelines issued by the EMA for approving biosimilars of marketed monoclonal antibody products became effective. If a biosimilar version of one of our products were approved, it could reduce our sales of that product. The introduction by our competitors of more efficacious, safer, cheaper, or more convenient alternatives to our products could also reduce our revenues and the value of our product development efforts. 26Table of ContentsAdverse market and economic conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. Sales of our products are dependent on reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, distribution partners and other organizations. These organizations may reduce the extent of reimbursements, increase their scrutiny of claims, delay payment or be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations due to deteriorating global economic conditions, uncertainty about the direction and relative strength of the U.S. economy and resolution of the U.S. budget deficit, the continuing European financial crisis, volatility in the credit and financial markets, and other disruptions due to natural disasters, political instability or otherwise. The European market represents a major part of our business and most of our marketing efforts outside the U.S. are focused on Europe. Thus, the continued uncertainty of the credit and economic conditions in Italy, Spain and Portugal, among other members of the European Union, subjects us to credit risk from accounts receivable related to our product sales in these countries, which may have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. Our accounts receivable in certain European countries, such as Spain, Italy and Portugal, are subject to significant payment delays due to government funding and reimbursement practices. Continued adverse market and economic conditions in the European market could result in further reimbursement delays, reduce our product sales and revenues, result in additional allowances or significant bad debts, or cause us to recognize revenue in certain countries on a cash basis. We depend on collaborators and other third-parties for both product and royalty revenue, the clinical development of future products and commercialization, marketing and manufacturing of certain products, which are outside of our full control. We have a number of collaborators and partners, and have both in-licensed and out-licensed several products and programs. In addition to the factors described throughout these “Risk Factors,” these collaborations are subject to several other risks, including: •Our RITUXAN revenues, as well as any future revenues related to GAZYVA, are dependent on the efforts of Genentech and the Roche Group. Their interests may not always be aligned with our interests and they may not market RITUXAN or GAZYVA in the same manner or to the same extent that we would, which could adversely affect our RITUXAN or GAZYVA revenues. •Under our collaboration agreement with Genentech, the successful development and commercialization of GAZYVA and certain other anti-CD20 products will decrease our percentage of the collaboration's co-promotion profits.•Any failure on the part of our collaborators to comply with applicable laws and regulatory requirements in the sale, marketing and maintenance of the market authorization of our products or to fulfill any responsibilities they may have to protect and enforce any intellectual property rights underlying our products could have an adverse effect on our revenues as well as involve us in possible legal proceedings. •Collaborations often require the parties to cooperate, and failure to do so effectively could have an adverse impact on product sales by our collaborators, and could adversely affect the clinical development or regulatory approvals of products under joint control.In addition, we rely on third parties for several other aspects of our business. As a sponsor of clinical trials of our products, we rely on third party contract research organizations to carry out most of our clinical trial related activities and accurately report their results. These activities include initiating and monitoring the conduct of studies at clinical trial sites, identifying any noncompliance with the study protocol or current Good Clinical Practices and interfacing with regulators throughout the process. The failure of a contract research organization to conduct these activities with proper vigilance and competence and in accordance with current Good Clinical Practices can result in regulatory authorities rejecting our clinical trial data or, in some circumstances, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions against us. Manufacturing issues could substantially increase our costs and limit supply of our products. The process of manufacturing our products is complex, highly regulated and subject to several risks: •The process of manufacturing biologics is extremely susceptible to product loss due to contamination, oxidation, equipment failure or improper installation or operation of equipment, or vendor or operator error. Even minor deviations from normal manufacturing processes could result in reduced production yields, product defects and other supply disruptions. If microbial, viral or other contaminations are discovered in our products or manufacturing facilities, we may need to close our manufacturing facilities for an extended period of time to investigate and remediate the contaminant. 27Table of Contents•We rely on third party suppliers and manufacturers for, among other things, manufacturing of RITUXAN and GAZYVA, the majority of our clinical and commercial requirements for TECFIDERA and other small molecule products and product candidates, raw materials and supplies for production of products we manufacture, our fill-finish operations, the majority of our final product storage, and a substantial portion of our packaging operations. In addition, due to the unique manner in which our products are manufactured, we rely on single source providers of several raw materials and manufacturing supplies. These third parties are independent entities subject to their own unique operational and financial risks that are outside of our control. These third parties may not perform their obligations in a timely and cost-effective manner or in compliance with applicable regulations, and they may be unable or unwilling to increase production capacity commensurate with demand for our existing or future products. Finding alternative providers could take a significant amount of time and involve significant expense due to the specialized nature of the services and the need to obtain regulatory approval of any significant changes to our suppliers or manufacturing methods. We cannot be certain that we could reach agreement with alternative providers or that the FDA or other regulatory authorities would approve our use of such alternatives. •We rely on our manufacturing facilities in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina (RTP) and Hillerød, Denmark for the production of TYSABRI and our manufacturing facilities in RTP and Cambridge, Massachusetts for the production of AVONEX. Our global bulk supply of TYSABRI and AVONEX depends on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of these facilities, which could be adversely affected by equipment failures, labor shortages, natural disasters, power failures and numerous other factors. If we are unable to meet demand for TYSABRI or AVONEX for any reason, we would need to rely on a limited number of qualified third party contract manufacturers. •We and our third party providers are generally required to maintain compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices and other stringent requirements and are subject to inspections by the FDA and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. Any delay, interruption or other issues that arise in the manufacture, fill-finish, packaging, or storage of our products as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection could significantly impair our ability to develop and commercialize our products. Significant noncompliance could also result in the imposition of monetary penalties or other civil or criminal sanctions and damage our reputation.Any adverse developments affecting our manufacturing operations or the operations of our third-party suppliers and manufacturers may result in shipment delays, inventory shortages, lot failures, product withdrawals or recalls, or other interruptions in the commercial supply of our products. We may also have to take inventory write-offs and incur other charges and expenses for products that fail to meet specifications, undertake costly remediation efforts or seek more costly manufacturing alternatives. Such developments could increase our manufacturing costs, cause us to lose revenue or market share as patients and physicians turn to competing therapeutics, diminish our profitability or damage our reputation. Uncertainty over intellectual property in the biotechnology industry has been the source of litigation and other disputes, which is inherently costly and unpredictable. We are aware that others, including various universities and companies working in the biotechnology field, have filed patent applications and have been granted patents in the U.S. and in other countries claiming subject matter potentially useful to our business. Some of those patents and patent applications claim only specific products or methods of making such products, while others claim more general processes or techniques useful or now used in the biotechnology industry. There is considerable uncertainty within our industry about the validity, scope and enforceability of many issued patents in the U.S. and elsewhere in the world, and, to date, the law and practice remains in substantial flux both in the agencies that grant patents and in the courts. We cannot currently determine the ultimate scope and validity of patents which may be granted to third parties in the future or which patents might be asserted to be infringed by the manufacture, use and sale of our products, services or technologies. 28Table of ContentsThere has been, and we expect that there may continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Litigation, arbitrations, administrative proceedings and other legal actions with private parties and governmental authorities concerning patents and other intellectual property rights may be protracted, expensive and distracting to management. Competitors may sue us as a way of delaying the introduction of our products. Any litigation, including any interference proceedings to determine priority of inventions, oppositions to patents in foreign countries or litigation against our partners, may be costly and time consuming and could harm our business. We expect that litigation may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope of certain of our proprietary rights. Litigation may be necessary in other instances to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of certain patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products. Ultimately, the outcome of such litigation could adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other proprietary rights, hinder our ability to manufacture and market our products, or result in the assessment of significant monetary damages against us that may exceed amounts, if any, accrued in our financial statements. To the extent that valid present or future third party patent or other intellectual property rights cover our products, services or technologies, we or our strategic collaborators may seek licenses or other agreements from the holders of such rights in order to avoid or settle legal claims. Such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, which may hinder our ability to manufacture and market our products and services. Payments under any licenses that we are able to obtain would reduce our profits derived from the covered products and services. If we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business. Our activities, and the activities of our collaborators, distributors and other third party providers, are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. The FDA and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions directly regulate many of our most critical business activities, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting and product risk management. Our interactions in the U.S. or abroad with physicians and other health care providers that prescribe or purchase our products are also subject to government regulation designed to prevent fraud and abuse in the sale and use of the products and place greater restrictions on the marketing practices of health care companies. Health care companies are facing heightened scrutiny of their relationships with health care providers from anti-corruption enforcement officials. In addition, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government regulation, including claims asserting submission of incorrect pricing information, impermissible off-label promotion of pharmaceutical products, payments intended to influence the referral of health care business, submission of false claims for government reimbursement, antitrust violations, or violations related to environmental matters. These risks may be heightened as we continue to expand our global operations and introduce additional products to the market. Regulations governing the health care industry are subject to change, with possibly retroactive effect, including: •new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to health care availability, pricing or marketing practices, compliance with wage and hour laws and other employment practices, method of delivery, payment for health care products and services, compliance with health information and data privacy and security laws and regulations, tracking and reporting payments and other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals, and extensive anti-bribery and anti-corruption prohibitions; •changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and result in lost market opportunity; and•changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products.Examples of previously enacted and possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our business include the enactment in the U.S. of health care reform, potential regulations easing the entry of competing biosimilars in the marketplace, new legislation or implementation of existing statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost competing drugs from other jurisdictions, enhanced penalties for and investigations into non-compliance with U.S. fraud and abuse laws, and compliance with the Physician Payment Sunshine Act in the U.S. and similar foreign rules and regulations that require collection and reporting of payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals. 29Table of ContentsViolations of governmental regulation may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions against us, including fines and civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, as well as against executives overseeing our business. In addition to penalties for violation of laws and regulations, we could be required to repay amounts we received from government payors, or pay additional rebates and interest if we are found to have miscalculated the pricing information we have submitted to the government. Whether or not we have complied with the law, an investigation into alleged unlawful conduct could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, divert management time and attention and adversely affect our business. Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. We are increasing our presence in international markets, which subjects us to many risks that could adversely affect our business, such as: •the inability to obtain necessary foreign regulatory or pricing approvals of products in a timely manner; •collectability of accounts receivable; •fluctuations in currency exchange rates; •difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; •the imposition of governmental controls; •less favorable intellectual property or other applicable laws; •increasingly complex standards for complying with foreign laws and regulations that may differ substantially from country to country and may conflict with corresponding U.S. laws and regulations; •the emergence of far-reaching anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation in the U.K., including passage of the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, and elsewhere and escalation of investigations and prosecutions pursuant to such laws; •compliance with complex import and export control laws;•restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities and trade restrictions; •greater political or economic instability; and •changes in tax laws and tariffs.In addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under U.S. law. For example, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. In many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures or withdrawal of an approved product from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions and the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations. Our business may be adversely affected if we do not manage our current growth and do not successfully execute our growth initiatives.We have experienced growth in our headcount and operations, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. We anticipate further growing through both internal development projects as well as external opportunities, which include the acquisition, partnering and in-licensing of products, technologies and companies or the entry into strategic alliances and collaborations. The availability of high quality development opportunities is limited and we are not certain that we will be able to identify candidates that we and our shareholders consider suitable or complete transactions on terms that are acceptable to us and our shareholders. In order to pursue such opportunities, we may require significant additional financing, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. Even if we are able to successfully identify and complete acquisitions and other strategic alliances and collaborations, we may not be able to integrate them or take full advantage of them and therefore may not realize the benefits that we expect. 30Table of ContentsTo effectively manage our current and future potential growth, we will need to continue to enhance our operational, financial and management processes and to effectively expand, train and manage our employee base. Supporting our growth initiatives will require significant capital expenditures and management resources, including investments in research and development, sales and marketing, manufacturing and other areas of our business. If we do not successfully manage our current growth and do not successfully execute our growth initiatives, then our business and financial results may be adversely affected and we may incur asset impairment or restructuring charges.Our investments in properties, including our manufacturing facilities, may not be fully realizable. We own or lease real estate primarily consisting of buildings that contain research laboratories, office space, and biologic manufacturing operations. For strategic or other operational reasons, we may decide to further consolidate or co-locate certain aspects of our business operations or dispose of one or more of our properties, some of which may be located in markets that are experiencing high vacancy rates and decreasing property values. If we determine that the fair value of any of our owned properties is lower than their book value we may not realize the full investment in these properties and incur significant impairment charges. If we decide to fully or partially vacate a leased property, such as we did in connection with our recent relocation of our corporate headquarters from Weston, Massachusetts to Cambridge, Massachusetts, we may incur significant cost, including lease termination fees, rent expense in excess of sublease income and impairment of leasehold improvements. In addition, we may not fully utilize our manufacturing facilities, resulting in idle time at facilities or substantial excess manufacturing capacity, due to reduced expectations of product demand, improved yields on production and other factors. Any of these events may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate and we may incur obligations in tax jurisdictions in excess of accrued amounts. As a global biotechnology company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. As a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various places that we operate. In preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of such places. Our effective tax rate, however, may be different than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including changes in the mix of our profitability from country to country, the results of examinations and audits of our tax filings, adjustments to the value of our uncertain tax positions, including those relating to our manufacturing deduction, changes in accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws. Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations. In addition, our inability to secure or sustain acceptable arrangements with tax authorities and previously enacted or future changes in the tax laws, among other things, may result in tax obligations in excess of amounts accrued in our financial statements. In the U.S., there are several proposals under consideration to reform tax law, including proposals that may reduce or eliminate the deferral of U.S. income tax on our unrepatriated earnings, penalize certain transfer pricing structures, and reduce or eliminate certain foreign or domestic tax credits or deductions. Our future reported financial results may be adversely affected by tax law changes which restrict or eliminate certain foreign tax credits or our ability to deduct expenses attributable to foreign earnings, or otherwise affect the treatment of our unrepatriated earnings. The growth of our business depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and to develop and maintain key relationships. The achievement of our commercial, research and development and external growth objectives depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, manufacturing, sales and marketing and executive personnel and to develop and maintain relationships with qualified clinical researchers and key distributors. Competition for these people and relationships is intense and comes from a variety of sources, including pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and non-profit research organizations. Pending and future product liability claims may adversely affect our business and our reputation. The administration of drugs in humans, whether in clinical studies or commercially, carries the inherent risk of product liability claims whether or not the drugs are actually the cause of an injury. Our products or product candidates may cause, or may appear to have caused, injury or dangerous drug interactions, and we may not learn about or understand those effects until the product or product candidate has been administered to patients for a prolonged period of time. 31Table of ContentsWe are subject from time to time to lawsuits based on product liability and related claims. We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any pending or future litigation. We may not be successful in defending ourselves in the litigation and, as a result, our business could be materially harmed. These lawsuits may result in large judgments or settlements against us, any of which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and business if in excess of our insurance coverage. Additionally, lawsuits can be expensive to defend, whether or not they have merit, and the defense of these actions may divert the attention of our management and other resources that would otherwise be engaged in managing our business. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations. Our quarterly revenues, expenses and net income (loss) have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future due to the risks described in these “Risk Factors” as well as the timing of charges and expenses that we may take. We have recorded, or may be required to record, charges that include: •the cost of restructurings; •impairments with respect to investments, fixed assets and long-lived assets, including in-process research and development and other intangible assets; •inventory write-downs for failed quality specifications, charges for excess or obsolete inventory and charges for inventory write downs relating to product suspensions, expirations or recalls; •bad debt expenses and increased bad debt reserves; •outcomes of litigation and other legal proceedings, regulatory matters and tax matters;•milestone payments under license and collaboration agreements; and •payments in connection with acquisitions and other business development activity.Our revenues are also subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. We recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in the period in which we incur those gains or losses. Although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge specific forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may not be successful. As a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, and the currencies in which we do business will affect our operating results, often in unpredictable ways. Our net income may also fluctuate due to the impact of charges we may be required to take with respect to foreign currency hedge transactions. In particular, we may incur higher than expected charges from hedge ineffectiveness or from the termination of a hedge relationship. In addition, our operating results during any one period do not necessarily suggest the anticipated results of future periods. Our portfolio of marketable securities is subject to market, interest and credit risk that may reduce its value. We maintain a portfolio of marketable securities for investment of our cash. Changes in the value of our portfolio of marketable securities could adversely affect our earnings. In particular, the value of our investments may decline due to increases in interest rates, downgrades of the bonds and other securities included in our portfolio, instability in the global financial markets that reduces the liquidity of securities included in our portfolio, declines in the value of collateral underlying the mortgage and asset-backed securities included in our portfolio, and other factors. Each of these events may cause us to record charges to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio or sell investments for less than our acquisition cost. Although we attempt to mitigate these risks by investing in high quality securities and continuously monitoring our portfolio's overall risk profile, the value of our investments may nevertheless decline. Our business involves environmental risks, which include the cost of compliance and the risk of contamination or injury. Our business and the business of several of our strategic partners involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biologics and radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with state and federal standards, there will always be the risk of accidental contamination or injury. If we were to become liable for an accident, or if we were to suffer an extended facility shutdown, we could incur significant costs, damages and penalties that could harm our business. Biologics manufacturing also requires permits from government agencies for water supply and wastewater discharge. If we do not obtain appropriate permits, or permits for sufficient quantities of water and wastewater, we could incur significant costs and limits on our manufacturing volumes that could harm our business. 32Table of ContentsA breakdown or breach of our information technology systems could subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our business.Many of our key business processes are facilitated by information technology systems. Information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and random attack. Likewise, individuals authorized to access our information technology systems may pose a risk by exposing private or confidential data to unauthorized persons or to the public. While we believe that we have taken appropriate security measures to minimize these risks to our data and information technology systems, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. Provisions in our Genentech collaboration agreement may discourage a third party from attempting to acquire us. Provisions in our collaboration agreement with Genentech might discourage a takeover attempt that could be viewed as beneficial to shareholders who wish to receive a premium for their shares from a potential bidder. Our collaboration agreement with Genentech allows Genentech to purchase our rights to RITUXAN and certain anti-CD20 products developed under the agreement if we undergo a change of control and certain other conditions are met, which may limit our attractiveness to potential acquirers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments