ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  Our business faces significant risks, including market and economic environment, credit, market/liquidity, operational, legal/regulatory and strategic/reputation risks. The factors described below may not be the only risks we face and are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing or be applicable only to the category of risk under which they are disclosed. The risks described below are generally applicable to more than one of the following categories of risks. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could suffer.  Risks Relating to Market and Economic Environment  The continuation or worsening of recent market and economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business, results of operations and ability to access capital.  Overall deterioration in domestic or global economic conditions, especially in the technology, life science, venture capital/private equity and premium wine industry niches or overall financial capital markets may adversely affect our business, growth, results of operations and ability to access capital. A global, domestic or significant regional economic slowdown or recession, could harm us by adversely affecting our clients’ and    17    Table of Contents  prospective clients’ access to capital to fund their businesses, their ability to sustain and grow their businesses, the level of funds they have available to maintain deposits, their demand for loans, their ability to repay loans and otherwise.  The United States has been in a serious economic downturn, as have economies around the world. Financial markets have been volatile, business and consumer spending has declined, and overall business activities have slowed, including a general slowdown in mergers and acquisitions (“M&A”) and initial public offerings (“IPOs”) of companies—events upon which the venture capital and private equity community relies to “exit” their investments. Overall venture capital financing activity has also slowed in recent periods. There have been limited signs of economic recovery recently, such as a modest increase in the number of IPOs, yet economic conditions continue to be challenging. If current market and economic conditions persist, our clients will continue to be adversely impacted, as will our investment returns, valuations of companies, and overall levels of venture capital and private equity investments, which may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions could likely exacerbate the adverse effect on us.  As a result of recent economic conditions, the capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption. SVB Financial depends on access to equity and debt markets as one of its primary sources to raise capital. There has been some improvement to market conditions, particularly access to equity markets; however, if recent levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Recent and future legislation and regulatory initiatives to address current market and economic conditions may not achieve their intended objectives, including stabilizing the U.S. banking system or reviving the overall economy.  Recent and future legislative and regulatory initiatives to address current market and economic conditions, such as EESA or the ARRA, may not achieve their intended objectives, including stabilizing or improving the U.S. banking system or reviving the overall economy. EESA was enacted in October 2008 to restore confidence and stabilize the volatility in the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. Treasury and banking regulators have implemented, and likely will continue to implement, various programs and legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the Troubled Assets Relief Program (“TARP”). There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that any of the recent, or future, legislative and regulatory initiatives will have on the financial markets and the overall economy. Any failure of these initiatives to help stabilize or improve the financial markets and the economy, and a continuation or worsening of recent financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to capital or credit, and the trading price of our common stock.  Additional requirements under our regulatory framework intended to strengthen the U.S. financial system could adversely affect us.  Recent government efforts to strengthen the U.S. financial system have resulted in the imposition of additional regulatory requirements, such as various executive compensation and corporate governance restrictions on CPP participants, and regulatory fees, such as FDIC assessment increase and prepayment requirements, on financial institutions. Moreover, there has been increasing legislative and other focus on the regulation of financial institutions, which may result in the imposition of additional legislative or regulatory requirements, such as changes to capital minimum guidelines, additional executive compensation restrictions or additional restrictions on non-banking activities, or perhaps, a possible comprehensive overhaul of the financial institutions regulatory system. Current and future requirements may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees.    18    Table of Contents Credit Risks  If our clients fail to perform under their loans, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.  As a lender, we face the risk that our client borrowers will fail to pay their loans when due. If borrower defaults cause large aggregate losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for loan losses, the increase of which results in a charge to our earnings as a provision for loan losses. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of loan losses are dependent to a great extent on our subjective assessment based upon our experience and judgment. Actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if such losses stem from factors beyond our historical experience or are otherwise inconsistent or out of pattern with regards to our credit quality assessments. There can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile. We may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce net income or increase net losses in that period.  Our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. In addition, the credit profile of our clients varies across our loan portfolio, based on the nature of the lending we do for different market segments. In our portfolios for emerging, early-stage and mid-stage companies, many of our loans are made to companies with modest or negative cash flows and no established record of profitable operations. Repayment of these loans may be dependent upon receipt by borrowers of additional equity financing from venture capitalists or others, or in some cases, a successful sale to a third party or a public offering. In recent periods, due to the overall weakening of the economic environment, venture capital financing activity has slowed, and IPOs and M&A activities have slowed significantly. Despite there being signs of improvement in such activities recently, if economic conditions worsen or do not continue to improve, such activities may slow down even further. Venture capital firms may provide financing at lower levels, more selectively or on less favorable terms, which may have an adverse effect on our borrowers that are otherwise dependent on such financing to repay their loans to us. Moreover, collateral for many of our loans often includes intellectual property, which is difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. Because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the companies in the technology and life science industry sectors, a borrower’s financial position can deteriorate rapidly.  Additionally, we may enter into accounts receivable financing arrangements with our company clients. The repayment of these arrangements is dependent on the financial condition, and payment ability, of third parties with whom our clients do business. Such third parties may be unable to meet their financial obligations to our clients, especially in a weakened economic environment.  In our portfolio of venture capital and private equity firm clients, many of our clients have capital call lines of credit, the repayment of which is dependent on the payment of capital calls by the underlying limited partner investors in the funds managed by these firms. These limited partner investors may face liquidity issues or have difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during unstable economic times, which may lead to our clients’ inability to meet their repayment obligations to us.  We have been increasing our efforts to lend to corporate technology and large corporate clients, including some companies with greater levels of debt relative to their equity, and have increased the average size of our loans over time. At December 31, 2009, our gross loan portfolio included a total of $957.6 million, or 20.9 percent, of individual loans greater than $20 million. Increasing our larger loan commitments could increase the impact on us of any single borrower default.    19    Table of Contents We lend to targeted high net-worth individual clients through our Private Client Services (“PCS”) group. These individual clients may face difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during a challenging economic environment, and may be unable to repay their loans. As of December 31, 2009, our total gross loans to these targeted individual clients in our PCS loan portfolio was over $350.0 million. In 2009, primarily due to the impact of economic conditions, we experienced a higher level of charge-offs since 2008 with respect to our PCS portfolio. We also lend to premium wineries and vineyards through our SVB Wine group. Repayment of loans made to these clients may be dependent on overall grape supply (which may be adversely affected by poor weather or other natural conditions) and overall wine demand and sales, or other sources of financing or income (which may be adversely affected by a challenging economic environment). As of December 31, 2009, our total gross loans in our premium wine portfolio was $442.1 million. In 2009, charge-offs with respect to this portfolio also increased by $2.8 million compared to 2008. See “Loans” under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Consolidated Financial Condition” under Item 7 of Part II of this report below.  For all of these reasons, our level of nonperforming loans, loan charge-offs and allowance for loan losses can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. Increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may require us to increase our provision for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. Additionally, such increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may also have an adverse effect on our credit ratings and market perceptions of us.  The borrowing needs of our clients may be volatile, especially during a challenging economic environment. We may not be able to meet our unfunded credit commitments, or adequately reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.  A commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a client as long as there is no violation of any condition established under the agreement. The actual borrowing needs of our clients under these credit commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments. A significant portion of these commitments expire without being drawn upon. Because of the credit profile of our clients, we typically have a substantial amount of total unfunded credit commitments, which is reflected off our balance sheet. At December 31, 2009, we had $5.3 billion in total unfunded credit commitments. Actual borrowing needs of our clients may exceed our expected funding requirements, especially during a challenging economic environment when our client companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, the increasing costs of credit, or the limited availability of financings from more discerning and selective venture capital/private equity firms. In addition, limited partner investors of our venture capital/private equity fund clients may fail to meet their underlying investment commitments due to liquidity or other financing issues, which may impact our clients’ borrowing needs. Any failure to meet our unfunded credit commitments in accordance with the actual borrowing needs of our clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.  Additionally, we establish a reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. The level of the reserve for unfunded credit commitments is determined by following a methodology similar to that used to establish our allowance for loan losses in our funded loan portfolio. The reserve is based on credit commitments outstanding, credit quality of the loan commitments, and management’s estimates and judgment, and is susceptible to significant changes. There can be no assurance that our reserve for unfunded credit commitments will be adequate to provide for actual losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. An increase in the reserve for unfunded credit commitments in any period may result in a charge to our earnings, which could reduce our net income or increase net losses in that period.    20    Table of Contents Market/Liquidity Risks  Our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. Any material reduction in our interest rate spread, or a sustained period of low market interest rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  A major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on amounts used to fund assets and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets. We fund assets using deposits and other borrowings. While we are increasingly offering more interest-bearing deposit products, a majority of our deposit balances are from our noninterest bearing products. Our interest-earning assets include outstanding loans extended to our clients and securities held in our investment portfolio. Overall, the interest rates we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities and receive on our interest-earning assets, and our level of interest rate spread, could be affected by a variety of factors, including changes in market interest rates, competition, and a change over time in the mix of loans, investment securities, deposits and other liabilities on our balance sheet.  Changes in market interest rates, such as the Federal Funds rate, generally impact our interest rate spread. While changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in the revenues earned from our interest-earning assets and the expenses associated with our interest-bearing liabilities, increases in market interest rates will nevertheless likely cause our interest rate spread to increase. (While increases in market interest rates will nevertheless likely cause our interest rate spread to increase, due to the current low level of interest rates this is not expected to be the case for the first 75 basis points of increases in the target Federal Funds rate in 2010 or later. Despite the 75 basis point decrease in the target Federal Funds rates in December 2008, we did not lower the Bank’s prime lending rate in a corresponding manner.) Conversely, if interest rates decline, our interest rate spread will likely decline. Decreases in market interest rates, especially during 2008 and 2009, have caused our interest rate spread to decline significantly, which has reduced our net income. Sustained low levels of market interest rates will likely continue to put pressure on our results of operations. Unexpected interest rate declines may also adversely affect our business forecasts and expectations. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies.  Any material reduction in our interest rate spread or the continuation of sustained low levels of market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition.  Liquidity is essential to our business. We require sufficient liquidity to meet our expected, as well as unexpected, financial obligations and requirements. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, equity/debt offerings and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms attractive to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a reduction in our credit ratings, an increase in costs of capital in financial capital markets, a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us, or a decrease in depositor or investor confidence in us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole.  Additionally, our credit ratings are important to our liquidity and our business. A reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, and limit our access to the capital markets. Moreover, a reduction in our credit ratings could increase the interest rates we pay on deposits, or adversely affect perceptions about our creditworthiness or our overall reputation.    21    Table of Contents Equity warrant asset, venture capital and private equity funds and direct equity investment portfolio gains or losses depend upon the performance of the portfolio investments and the general condition of the public equity markets, which are uncertain and may vary materially by period.  In connection with negotiated credit facilities and certain other services, we frequently obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock in certain client companies. We also make investments through our SVB Capital family of funds in venture capital and private equity funds and direct investments in companies, which are required to be carried at fair value. The fair value of these warrants and investments are reflected in our financial statements and are adjusted on a quarterly basis. Fair value changes are generally recorded as unrealized gains or losses through consolidated net income. The timing and amount of changes in fair value, if any, of these financial instruments depend upon factors beyond our control, including the performance of the underlying companies, fluctuations in the market prices of the preferred or common stock of the underlying companies, the timing of our receipt of relevant financial information, general volatility and interest rate market factors, and legal and contractual restrictions. The timing and amount of our realization of actual net proceeds, if any, from the disposition of these financial instruments depend upon factors beyond our control, including investor demand for IPOs, levels of M&A activity, legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell, and the perceived and actual performance and future value of portfolio companies. Because of the inherent variability of these financial instruments and the markets in which they are bought and sold, the fair market value of these financial instruments might increase or decrease materially, and the net proceeds realized upon disposition might be less than the then-current recorded fair market value.  We cannot predict future realized or unrealized gains or losses, and any such gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. Additionally, the value of our equity warrant asset portfolio depends on the number of warrants we obtain, and in future periods, we may not be able to continue to obtain such equity warrant assets to the same extent we have historically achieved.  Public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions involving our clients or a slowdown in venture capital investment levels may reduce the borrowing needs of our clients, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  While an active market for public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering, are acquired by or merge with another entity or otherwise receive a significant equity investment. The current economic conditions reflect a slowdown in such transactions, however if the levels of such transactions were to increase, our total outstanding loans may decline. Moreover, our capital call lines of credit are typically utilized by our venture capital fund clients to make investments prior to receipt of capital called from their respective limited partners. A slowdown in overall venture capital investment levels may reduce the need for our clients to borrow from our capital call lines of credit. Any significant reduction in the outstanding amounts of our loans or under our lines of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Failure to raise additional funds from third-party investors for our funds managed by SVB Capital may require us to use capital to fund commitments to other funds, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and reputation.  From time to time, we form new investment funds through our funds management division, SVB Capital. These funds include funds that invest in other venture capital and private equity funds (which we refer to as funds of funds) and portfolio companies (which we refer to as direct equity funds). Our managed funds are typically structured as limited partnerships, heavily funded by third party limited partners and ultimately managed by us through our SVB Capital division. SVB Financial typically will also make a significant capital commitment to each of these funds as a limited partner.    22    Table of Contents Prior to forming a new fund of funds, SVB Financial has made and may make investment commitments intended for the new fund, in order to show potential investors the types of funds in which the new fund will invest. Until these investments are transferred to the new fund, which typically will occur upon the acceptance of binding commitments from third-party limited partners (the “closing”), these investments are obligations of SVB Financial. If we fail to attract sufficient capital from third-party investors to conduct the closing of a fund, we may be required to permanently allocate capital to these investments when we otherwise had intended them to be temporary obligations. If, under such circumstances, we decide to sell these investments or fail to meet our obligations, we may lose some or all of the capital that has already been deployed and may be subject to legal claims. Any unexpected permanent allocation of capital toward these investments, loss of capital contributed to these investments or legal claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, as well as our reputation.  The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.  Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other institutional clients, which may result in payment obligations to us or to our clients due to products arranged by us. Many of these transactions expose us to credit and market risk that may cause our counterparty or client to default. In addition, we are exposed to market risk when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the secured obligation. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Operational Risks  If we fail to retain our key employees or recruit new employees, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected.  We rely on key personnel, including a substantial number of employees who have technical expertise in their subject matter area and/or a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. If we were to have less success in recruiting and retaining these employees than our competitors, for reasons including regulatory restrictions on compensation practices or the availability of more attractive opportunities elsewhere, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected.  The manner in which we structure our employee compensation could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to attract, recruit and retain key employees.   In May 2006, in an effort to align our equity grant rate to that of other financial institutions similar to us, we committed to restrict the total number of shares of our common stock issued under stock options, restricted stock awards, restricted stock unit awards, stock bonus awards and any other equity awards granted during a fiscal year as a percentage of the total number of shares outstanding on a prospective basis. In light of this restriction, we may in the future consider taking other actions to modify employee compensation structures, such as granting cash compensation or other cash-settled forms of equity compensation, which may result in an additional charge to our earnings.  How we structure our equity compensation may also have an adverse effect on our ability to attract, recruit and retain key employees. Our decision in May 2006 to reduce equity awards to be granted on a prospective basis, and any other similar changes limiting our equity awards that we may adopt in the future, could negatively impact our hiring and retention strategies. Moreover, recent economic conditions have reduced our share price, causing existing employee options and equity awards to have exercise prices higher—in some cases, meaningfully higher—than our actual share price. These factors could adversely affect our ability to attract, recruit and retain certain key employees.    23    Table of Contents The occurrence of fraudulent activity or breaches of our information security could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  As a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity that may be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses to us or our clients, privacy breaches against our clients, or damage to our reputation. Such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering and other dishonest acts. In recent periods, there has been a rise in electronic fraudulent activity within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts as they typically contain higher account balances.  Information pertaining to us and our clients are maintained, and transactions are executed, on our internal networks and Internet-based systems, such as our online banking system. The secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and to maintain our clients’ confidence. Increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third-party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and periodically test our security, failure to mitigate breaches of security could result in losses to us or our clients, result in a loss of business and/or clients, cause us to incur additional expenses, affect our ability to grow our online services or other businesses, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  More generally, publicized information concerning security problems could inhibit the use or growth of the Internet as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Our ability to provide financial services over the Internet would be severely impeded if clients became unwilling to transmit confidential information online. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  We face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our people and processes to support our operations and future growth effectively.  In order to serve our target clients effectively, we have developed a comprehensive array of banking and other products and services. In order to support these products and services, we have developed and purchased or licensed information technology and other systems and processes. As our business continues to grow, we will continue to invest in and enhance these systems, and our people and processes. These investments and enhancements may affect our future profitability and overall effectiveness. From time to time, we may change, consolidate, replace, add or upgrade existing systems or processes, which if not implemented properly to allow for an effective transition, may have an adverse effect on our operations, including business interruptions which may result in inefficiencies, revenue losses, client losses, exposure to fraudulent activities, or damage to our reputation. For example, we are in the process of implementing a new universal banking system that will replace our current platform. Or, we may outsource certain operational functions to consultants or other third parties to enhance our overall efficiencies, which if not performed properly, could also have an adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively maintain or improve our systems and processes, or utilize outsourced talent, to meet our business needs efficiently. Any failure of such could adversely affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations, future growth and reputation.  Business disruptions and interruptions due to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control can adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, severe weather, public health issues, power failures, telecommunication loss, major accidents,    24    Table of Contents  terrorist attacks, acts of war, and other natural and man-made events. Our corporate headquarters and a portion of our critical business offices are located in California near major earthquake faults. Such events of disaster, whether natural or attributable to human beings, could cause severe destruction, disruption or interruption to our operations or property. Financial institutions, such as us, generally must resume operations promptly following any interruption. If we were to suffer a disruption or interruption and were not able to resume normal operations within a period consistent with industry standards, our business could suffer serious harm. In addition, depending on the nature and duration of the disruption or interruption, we might be vulnerable to fraud, additional expense or other losses, or to a loss of business and/or clients. We have implemented a business continuity management program and we continue to enhance it on an ongoing basis. There is no assurance that our business continuity management program can adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions.  Additionally, natural disasters and external events could affect the business and operations of our clients, which could impair their ability to pay their loans or fees when due, impair the value of collateral securing their loans, cause our clients to reduce their deposits with us, or otherwise adversely affect their business dealings with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  We face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties.  We rely on third parties, both in the United States and internationally in countries such as India, in a variety of ways, including to provide key components of our business infrastructure or to further our business objectives. These third parties may provide services to us and our clients or serve as partners in business activities. We rely on these third parties to fulfill their obligations to us, to accurately inform us of relevant information and to conduct their activities professionally and in a manner that reflects positively on us. Any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance with our expectations could result in operational issues, increased expenditures, damage to our reputation or loss of clients, which could harm our business and operations, financial performance, strategic growth or reputation.  We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.  In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, under our accounts receivable financing arrangements, we rely on information, such as invoices, contracts and other supporting documentation, provided by our clients and their account debtors to determine the amount of credit to extend. Similarly, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers’ representations that their financial statements conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We also may rely on customer representations and certifications, or other audit or accountants’ reports, with respect to the business and financial condition of our clients. Our financial condition, results of operations, financial reporting and reputation could be negatively affected if we rely on materially misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information.  Our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are uncertain.  Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with GAAP and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the    25    Table of Contents  accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative.  Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements.  From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) or the SEC may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. In addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. These changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retroactively, in each case resulting in our revising or restating prior period financial statements.  If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock.  If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. We may also face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our securities from NASDAQ. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our stock price, and could potentially subject us to litigation.  Legal/Regulatory Risks  We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business.  SVB Financial Group, including the Bank, is extensively regulated under federal and state laws and regulations governing financial institutions, including those imposed by the FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the California Department of Financial Institutions. Federal and state laws and regulations govern, limit or otherwise affect the activities in which we may engage and may affect our ability to expand our business over time. In addition, a change in the applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy could have a material effect on our business, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. These laws and regulations also require financial institutions, including SVB Financial and the Bank, to maintain certain minimum levels of capital, which may require us to raise additional capital in the future or affect our ability to use our capital resources for other business purposes. In addition, increased regulatory requirements, whether due to the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  If we were to violate international, federal or state laws or regulations governing financial institutions, we could be subject to disciplinary action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.  International, federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to financial institutions. Other regulatory bodies, including the SEC, NASDAQ, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) and state securities regulators, regulate broker-dealers, including our    26    Table of Contents  subsidiary, SVB Securities. If SVB Financial Group were to violate, even if unintentionally or inadvertently, the laws governing public companies, financial institutions and broker-dealers, the regulatory authorities could take various actions against us, depending on the severity of the violation, such as revoking necessary licenses or authorizations, imposing censures, civil money penalties or fines, issuing cease and desist or other supervisory orders, and suspending or expelling from the securities business a firm, its officers or employees. Supervisory actions could result in higher capital requirements or the need for us to raise additional capital, higher insurance premiums, higher levels of liquidity available to meet the Bank’s financial needs and limitations on the activities of SVB Financial Group. These remedies and supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.  SVB Financial relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its cash revenues.  SVB Financial is a holding company and is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. One of its primary sources of income is cash revenues from dividends from its subsidiaries, primarily the Bank. These dividends are a principal source of funds to pay operating costs, borrowings, if any, and dividends, should SVB Financial elect to pay any. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to SVB Financial. Also, SVB Financial’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors.  Strategic/Reputation Risks   Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses.  Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our business. Our clients are concentrated by industry niches: technology, life science, venture capital/private equity and premium wine. Many of our client companies are concentrated by certain stages within their life cycles, such as early-stage or mid-stage, and many of these companies are venture capital-backed. Our loan concentrations are derived from our borrowers engaging in similar activities or types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that could cause those borrowers to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. Any adverse effect on any of our areas of concentration could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to our concentrations, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors.  Decreases in the amount of equity capital available to our portfolio companies could adversely affect our business, growth and profitability.  Our core strategy is focused on providing banking products and services to companies, including in particular to emerging stage to mid-stage companies, that receive financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capital or private equity firms, “angels,” and corporate investors. We derive a meaningful share of our deposits from these companies and provide them with loans as well as other banking products and services. In some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our venture capital or angel-backed client will receive additional rounds of equity capital from investors. If the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of new clients and investor financial support to our existing borrowers could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects.  Among the factors that have affected and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to our portfolio companies are the receptivity of the capital markets, the prevalence of IPO’s or M&A activity of companies within our technology and life science industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments and general economic conditions in the technology, life science and venture capital/private equity industries. Reduced capital markets valuations could reduce the amount of capital available to our client companies, including companies within our technology and life science industry sectors.    27    Table of Contents Because our business and strategy are largely based on this venture capital/private equity financing framework focused on our particular client niches, any material changes in the framework, including adverse trends in investment or fundraising levels, may have a materially adverse effect on our business, strategy and overall profitability.  We face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth.  Other banks and specialty and diversified financial services companies and debt funds, many of which are larger than we are, offer lending, leasing, other financial products and advisory services to our client base. In addition, we compete with hedge funds and private equity funds. In some cases, our competitors focus their marketing on our industry sectors and seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies or special industries such as wineries. In other cases, our competitors may offer a broader range of financial products to our clients. When new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share or ability to exploit new market opportunities. Our pricing and credit terms could deteriorate if we act to meet these competitive challenges, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. Similarly, competitive pressures could adversely affect the business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth of our non-banking services, including our access to capital and attractive investment opportunities for our funds business.  Our ability to maintain or increase our market share depends on our ability to meet the needs of existing and future clients.  Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and to meet the needs of existing and potential future clients. A failure to achieve market acceptance for any new products we introduce, a failure to introduce products that the market may demand, or the costs associated with developing, introducing and providing new products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, growth prospects and financial condition.  We face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings.  If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may engage in strategic activities, which could include acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, investments or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful.  In order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might obtain additional equity or debt financing. Such financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Our ability to execute strategic activities successfully will depend on a variety of factors. These factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating the operations, services, products, personnel and systems of an acquired company into our business, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to do business, retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting management’s expectations and otherwise realizing the undertaking’s anticipated benefits. Our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. In addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management’s attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. If we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. In addition, if we were to conclude that the    28    Table of Contents  value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations.  We face risks associated with international operations.  One component of our strategy is to expand internationally. To date, we have opened offices in China, India, Israel and the United Kingdom. We plan to expand our operations in those locations and may expand beyond these countries. Our efforts to expand our business internationally carry with them certain risks, including risks arising from the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations. In addition, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, legal, regulatory and tax requirements and restrictions, uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, incremental requirement of management’s attention and resources, differing technology standards or customer requirements, cultural differences, political and economic risks and financial risks, including currency and payment risks. These risks could adversely affect the success of our international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we face risks that our employees may fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing our international operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and foreign laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on us.  Our business reputation is important and any damage to it could have a material adverse effect on our business.  Our reputation is very important to sustain our business, as we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the venture capital and private equity communities, and the industries that we serve. Any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with SEC and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, or our conduct of our business or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business.      Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments