ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORSOur business faces significant risks, including credit, market/liquidity, operational, legal/regulatory and strategic/reputation risks. The factors described below may not be the only risks we face and are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing or be applicable only to the category of risk under which they are disclosed. The risks described below are generally applicable to more than one of the following categories of risks. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Credit Risks Because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile. We may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce net income and/or increase net losses in that period. Our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. The credit profile of our clients varies across our loan portfolio, based on the nature of the lending we do for different market segments. In our portfolios for emerging, early-stage and mid-stage privately-held companies, many of our loans are made to companies with modest or negative cash flows and/or no established record of profitable operations. Repayment of these loans may be dependent upon receipt by borrowers of additional equity financing from venture capitalists or others, or in some cases, a successful sale to a third party, public offering or other form of liquidity event. Over the past several years, overall economic conditions have improved, particularly since the financial crisis of 2008. Venture capital financing activity, as well as mergers & acquisitions (“M&A”) and initial public offerings (“IPOs”) - activities on which venture capital firms rely to “exit” investments to realize returns - have increased to healthier levels. If current economic conditions weaken or do not continue to improve, such activities may slow down in a meaningful manner, which may impact the financial health of our client companies. In such case, venture capital firms 17Table of Contentsmay provide financing in a more selective manner, at lower levels, and/or on less favorable terms, any of which may have an adverse effect on our borrowers that are otherwise dependent on such financing to repay their loans to us. Moreover, collateral for many of our loans often includes intellectual property, which is difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. Because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the companies in the technology and life science & healthcare industry sectors, the two sectors in which most of our borrowers reside, as well as periodic volatility in the market prices for their securities, a borrower's financial position can deteriorate rapidly.Some of our loans to our larger clients (including those in our Corporate Finance practice which serves our large corporate clients, typically with annual revenues over $75 million) may be made to companies with greater levels of debt relative to their equity, balance sheet liquidity, and/or cash flow. We have been continuing to increase our efforts to lend to larger corporate and private equity clients, as well as to underwrite larger loans. These larger loans include loans equal to or greater than $20 million to a single client, which has over time represented, and continues to represent, an increasingly larger proportion of our total loan portfolio. Additionally, in recent periods, we have increased our efforts to make sponsor-led buyout loans, which are leveraged buyout or recapitalization financings that are typically sponsored by our private equity clients. These buyout loans tend to be larger in size, many of which individually are greater than $20 million. Increasing our loan commitments, especially larger loans, could increase the impact on us of any single borrower default. Moreover, we have been increasing our participation in larger syndicated credit facilities agented by other financial institutions, where our control or decision-making ability over the credit facility is limited to our participation interest.We may also enter into financing arrangements with our clients, the repayment of which may be dependent on third parties' financial condition or ability to meet their payment obligations. For example, we enter into factoring arrangements which are secured by our clients' accounts receivable from third parties with whom they do business. We also make loans secured by letters of credit issued by other third party banks, or we enter into letters of credit discounting arrangements, the repayment of which may be dependent on the reimbursement by third party banks. We also extend recurring revenue-based lines of credit, where repayment may be dependent on borrowers’ revenues from third parties. Ultimately, these third parties may not meet their financial obligations to our clients or to us, which could have an adverse impact on us.In our loan portfolio of private equity and venture capital firm clients, many of our clients have lines of credit, the repayment of which is dependent on the payment of capital calls or management fees by the underlying limited partner investors in the funds managed by these firms. In recent periods, we have increased the levels of these capital call lines of credit. These limited partner investors may face liquidity issues or have difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during unstable economic times, which may lead to our clients' inability to meet their repayment obligations to us. We also lend primarily to private equity/venture capital professionals through SVB Private Bank. These individual clients may face difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during a challenging economic environment, and may be unable to repay their loans. We also lend to premium wineries and vineyards through our wine practice. Repayment of loans made to these clients may be dependent on overall wine demand and sales, or other sources of financing or income (which may be adversely affected by a challenging economic environment), and overall grape supply (which may be adversely affected by poor weather, drought, earthquake, or other natural conditions). The state of California continues to experience severe drought conditions for the fourth straight year in 2015 due to extremely low levels of rainfall. In January 2014, Governor Jerry Brown declared a drought emergency for California. Most of our clients’ wineries and vineyards are based in California, and the drought and any restrictions on water usage may have a material adverse effect on our borrower clients in our Wine practice and their ability to repay their loans. See “Loans” under “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations --- Consolidated Financial Condition” under Part II, Item 7 in this report.Based on the credit profile of our overall loan portfolio, our level of nonperforming loans, loan charge-offs and allowance for loan losses can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. Increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may require us to increase our provision for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. Additionally, such increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may also have an adverse effect on our capital ratios, credit ratings and market perceptions of us. Our allowance for loan losses is determined based upon both objective and subjective factors, and may not be adequate to absorb loan losses.As a lender, we face the risk that our borrower clients will fail to pay their loans when due. If borrower defaults cause large aggregate losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for loan losses, the increase of which results in a charge to our earnings as a provision 18Table of Contentsfor loan losses. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of loan losses are also dependent on our subjective assessment based upon our experience and judgment. Actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if such losses stem from factors beyond our historical experience or are otherwise inconsistent or out of pattern with regards to our credit quality assessments. Moreover, our regulators, as part of their supervisory function, periodically review our methodology, models and the underlying assumptions, estimates and assessments we use for calculating, and the adequacy of, our allowance for loan losses. Our regulators, based on their judgment, may conclude that we should modify our methodology or models, reclassify or downgrade our loans, increase our allowance for loan losses, and/or recognize further losses. There can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  The borrowing needs of our clients may be unpredictable, especially during a challenging economic environment. We may not be able to meet our unfunded credit commitments, or adequately reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. A commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a client as long as there is no violation of any condition established under the agreement. The actual borrowing needs of our clients under these credit commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments. A significant portion of these commitments expire without being drawn upon. Because of the credit profile of our clients, we typically have a substantial amount of total unfunded credit commitments, which is reflected off our balance sheet. See Note 18 - “Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, Guarantees and Other Commitments” of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ” under Part II, Item 8 in this report for additional details. Actual borrowing needs of our clients may exceed our expected funding requirements, especially during a challenging economic environment when our client companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, the increasing costs of credit, or the limited availability of financings from more discerning and selective private equity/venture capital firms. In addition, limited partner investors of our private equity/venture capital fund clients may fail to meet their underlying investment commitments due to liquidity or other financing issues, which may impact our clients' borrowing needs. Any failure to meet our unfunded credit commitments in accordance with the actual borrowing needs of our clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. Additionally, we establish a reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. The level of the reserve for unfunded credit commitments is determined by following a methodology similar to that used to establish our allowance for loan losses in our funded loan portfolio. The reserve is based on credit commitments outstanding, credit quality of the loan commitments, and management's estimates and judgment, and is susceptible to significant changes. There can be no assurance that our reserve for unfunded credit commitments will be adequate to provide for actual losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. An increase in the reserve for unfunded credit commitments in any period may result in a charge to our earnings, which could reduce our net income or increase net losses in that period. Market/Liquidity Risks Our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. Any material reduction in our interest rate spread, or a sustained period of low market interest rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. A major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on amounts used to fund assets and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets. We fund assets using deposits and other borrowings. While we offer interest-bearing deposit products, a majority of our deposit balances are from our noninterest bearing products. Our interest-earning assets include loans extended to our clients, securities held in our investment portfolio, and excess cash held to manage short-term liquidity. Overall, the interest rates we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities and receive on our interest-earning assets, and our level of interest rate spread, could be affected by a variety of factors, including changes in market interest rates, competition, regulatory requirements, and a change over time in the mix of the types of loans, investment securities, deposits and other liabilities on our balance sheet. Changes in key variable market interest rates, such as the Federal Funds, National Prime, the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) or Treasury rates, generally impact our interest rate spread. While changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in the revenues earned from our interest-earning assets and the expenses associated with our interest-bearing liabilities, increases in market interest rates will nevertheless likely cause our interest rate spread to increase. Conversely, if interest rates decline, our interest rate spread will likely decline. Sustained low levels of market interest rates, as we have been experiencing, could continue to place downward pressure on our net income levels. Unexpected or further interest rate changes may adversely affect our business forecasts and expectations. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our 19Table of Contentscontrol, such as inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. In addition, changes in the method of determining LIBOR or other reference rates as a result of concerns in recent years regarding the accuracy of such reference rates may adversely affect the value of reference rate-linked debt securities that we hold or issue, which could further impact our interest rate spread, financial condition or results of operations.Any material reduction in our interest rate spread or the continuation of sustained low levels of market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business, both at the SVB Financial and the Bank level. We require sufficient liquidity to meet our expected financial obligations, as well as unexpected requirements stemming from client activity and market changes. Primary liquidity resources for SVB Financial include cash flow from investments and interest in financial assets held by operating subsidiaries other than the Bank; to the extent declared, dividends from the Bank, its main operating subsidiary; and as needed, periodic capital market transactions offering debt and equity instruments in the public and private markets. Client deposits are the primary source of liquidity for the Bank. When needed, wholesale borrowing capacity supplements our liquidity in the form of short- and long-term borrowings secured by our portfolio of high quality investment securities, long-term capital market debt issuances and, finally, through unsecured overnight funding channels available to us in the Federal Funds market. An inability to maintain or raise funds through these sources could have a substantial negative effect, individually or collectively, on SVB Financial and the Bank's liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms attractive to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include an increase in costs of capital in financial capital markets, a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us, or a decrease in depositor or investor confidence in us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe volatility or disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. Any failure to manage our liquidity effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.Additionally, our credit ratings are important to our liquidity and our business. A reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, and limit our access to the capital markets. Moreover, a reduction in our credit ratings could increase the interest rates we pay on deposits, or adversely affect perceptions about our creditworthiness and business, or our overall reputation. Any damage to our reputation can also have an adverse effect on our liquidity and our business. Equity warrant assets, venture capital and private equity funds and direct equity investment portfolio gains or losses depend upon the performance of the portfolio investments and the general condition of the public and private equity and M&A markets, which are uncertain and may vary materially by period. In connection with negotiated credit facilities and certain other services, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock in private, venture-backed companies in the technology and life science & healthcare industries. We have also made investments through SVB Financial or our SVB Capital family of funds primarily in venture capital funds and direct investments in companies, many of which are required to be carried at fair value. The fair value of these warrants and investments are reflected in our financial statements and are adjusted on a quarterly basis. Fair value changes are generally recorded as unrealized gains or losses through consolidated net income. The timing and amount of changes in fair value, if any, of these financial instruments depend upon factors beyond our control, including the performance of the underlying companies, fluctuations in the market prices of the preferred or common stock of the underlying companies, the timing of our receipt of relevant financial information, general volatility and interest rate market factors, and legal and contractual restrictions. The timing and amount of our realization of actual net proceeds, if any, from our disposition of these financial instruments depend upon various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Those factors include the level of IPO and M&A activity (or other “exit” activity), legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell equity positions held (including the expiration of any “lock-up” agreements), the perceived and actual performance and future value of the underlying portfolio companies, the current valuation of the financial instruments, the timing of any actual dispositions, and overall market conditions. Because of the inherent variability of these financial instruments and the markets in which they are bought and sold, the fair market value of these financial instruments might increase or decrease materially, and the net proceeds realized upon disposition might be different than the then-current recorded fair market value. In addition, depending on the fair value of these warrants and direct equity investments, a meaningful portion of the aggregate fair value of our total warrant and direct equity investment portfolios may, from time to time, be concentrated in a limited number of warrants and direct equity investments. Valuation changes in one or more of these warrants or direct equity investments may have a material impact on the valuation of the total investment portfolio. 20Table of Contents We cannot predict future realized or unrealized gains or losses, and any such gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. Additionally, the value of our equity warrant asset portfolio depends on, among other things, the underlying value of the issuing companies, which may also vary materially from period to period. See Note 13 - “Derivative Financial Instruments" of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” under Part II, Item 8 in this report for additional details.Public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions involving our clients or a slowdown in venture capital investment levels may reduce the borrowing needs of our clients, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. While an active market for public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering, are acquired by or merge with another entity or otherwise receive a significant equity investment. Moreover, our capital call lines of credit are typically utilized by our private equity/venture capital fund clients to make investments prior to receipt of capital called from their respective limited partners. A slowdown in overall venture capital investment levels may reduce the need for our clients to borrow from our capital call lines of credit. Any significant reduction in the outstanding amounts of our loans or under our lines of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  Operational Risks If we fail to retain our key employees or recruit new employees, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on key personnel, including a substantial number of employees who have technical expertise in their subject matter area and/or a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. In addition, as we expand in international markets, we will need to hire local personnel within those markets. If we were to have less success in recruiting and retaining these employees than our competitors, for reasons including domestic or foreign regulatory restrictions on compensation practices or the availability of more attractive opportunities elsewhere, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected.Moreover, equity awards are an important component of our compensation program, especially for our executive officers and other members of senior management. The extent of available equity for such awards is subject to stockholder approval. If we do not have sufficient shares to grant to existing or new employees, there could be an adverse effect on our recruiting and retention efforts, which could impact our growth and results of operations.The occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches of our information security or cybersecurity-related incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. As a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity, information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents that may be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses or increased costs to us or our clients, disclosure or misuse of our information or our client information, misappropriation of assets, privacy breaches against our clients, litigation, or damage to our reputation. Such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering and other dishonest acts. Information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include fraudulent or unauthorized access to systems used by us or our clients, denial or degradation of service attacks, and malware or other cyber-attacks. In recent periods, there continues to be a rise in electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cyber-attacks within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts. Consistent with industry trends, we have also experienced an increase in attempted electronic fraudulent activity, as well as attempts at security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents in recent periods. Moreover, in recent periods, several large corporations, including financial institutions and retail companies, have suffered major data breaches, in some cases exposing not only confidential and proprietary corporate information, but also sensitive financial and other personal information of their customers and employees and subjecting them to potential fraudulent activity. Some of our clients may have been affected by these breaches, which increase their risks of identity theft, credit card fraud and other fraudulent activity that could involve their accounts with us.Information pertaining to us and our clients is maintained, and transactions are executed, on the networks and systems of us, our clients and certain of our third party partners, such as our online banking or reporting systems. The secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and security breaches and to maintain our clients' confidence. Breaches of information security also may occur, and in infrequent cases have occurred, through intentional or unintentional acts by those having access to our systems or our clients’ or counterparties’ confidential information, including employees. In addition, SVB provides card transaction 21Table of Contentsprocessing services to some merchant customers under agreements we have with those merchants and/or with the payment networks. Under these agreements, we may be responsible for certain losses and penalties if one of our merchant customers suffers a data security breach. Furthermore, SVB’s cardholders use their debit and credit cards to make purchases from third parties or through third party processing services. As such, SVB is subject to risk from data breaches of such third party’s information systems or their payment processors. Such a data security breach could compromise SVB account information. SVB may suffer losses associated with reimbursing our customers for such fraudulent transactions on customers’ card accounts, as well as for other costs related to data security breaches, such as replacing cards associated with compromised card accounts.We also offer certain services that allow non-accountholders to process payments through SVB’s systems, as well as financial analytics services. In the course of providing those services, we may obtain sensitive data about customers who do not otherwise hold accounts with us, including information regarding accounts held at other institutions, as well as profit and loss and other proprietary financial or other information regarding our customers or the non-accountholders they service. In the event of a data breach, this sensitive information may be exposed and could subject us to claims for damages. In addition, increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third-party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems. Although we have developed, and continue to invest in, systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber-attacks and periodically test our security, our inability to anticipate, or failure to adequately mitigate, breaches of security could result in: losses to us or our clients; our loss of business and/or clients; damage to our reputation; the incurrence of additional expenses; disruption to our business; our inability to grow our online services or other businesses; additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties; or our exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability - any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.More generally, publicized information concerning security and cyber-related problems could inhibit the use or growth of electronic or web-based applications or solutions as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Such publicity may also cause damage to our reputation as a financial institution. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. We face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our people and processes to support our operations and future growth effectively. In order to serve our target clients effectively, we have developed, and are continually developing, a comprehensive array of banking and other products and services. In order to support these products and services and for the Company to operate effectively, we have developed, purchased and licensed information technology and other systems and processes. As our business continues to grow, we will continue to invest in and enhance these systems, and our people and processes. These investments and enhancements may affect our future profitability and overall effectiveness. From time to time, we may change, consolidate, replace, add or upgrade existing systems or processes, which if not implemented properly to allow for an effective transition, may have an adverse effect on our operations, including business interruptions which may result in inefficiencies, revenue losses, client losses, exposure to fraudulent activities, regulatory enforcement actions, or damage to our reputation. For example, we are in the process of enhancing our core banking system, as well as implementing and enhancing other systems to support specific business units, including our international operations. We also outsource certain operational and other functions to consultants or other third parties to enhance our overall efficiencies. If we do not implement our systems effectively or if our outsourcing business partners do not perform their functions properly, there could be an adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively maintain or improve our systems and processes, or utilize outsourced talent, to meet our business needs efficiently. Any failure of such could adversely affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations, future growth or reputation. 22Table of ContentsBusiness disruptions and interruptions due to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, severe weather, public health issues, power failures, telecommunication loss, major accidents, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and other natural and man-made events. Our corporate headquarters and a portion of our critical business offices are located in California near major earthquake faults. Such events of disaster, whether natural or attributable to human beings, could cause severe destruction, disruption or interruption to our operations or property. Financial institutions, such as us, generally must resume operations promptly following any interruption. If we were to suffer a disruption or interruption and were not able to resume normal operations within a period consistent with industry standards, our business could suffer serious harm. In addition, depending on the nature and duration of the disruption or interruption, we might be vulnerable to fraud, additional expense or other losses, or to a loss of business and/or clients. We have implemented a business continuity management program and we continue to enhance it on an ongoing basis. There is no assurance that our business continuity management program can adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions. Additionally, natural disasters and external events, including those occurring in and around the state of California, could affect the business and operations of our clients, which could impair their ability to pay their loans or fees when due, impair the value of collateral securing their loans, cause our clients to reduce their deposits with us, or otherwise adversely affect their business dealings with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A significant portion of our client borrowers are located in, or have operations in, the state of California, which has historically experienced severe natural disasters resulting in disruptions to businesses and damage to property. These clients include our premium winery and vineyard clients, our Private Bank mortgage clients and other corporate clients with California offices. If there is a major earthquake, flood, fire or other natural disaster in California or elsewhere in the markets in which we operate, our borrowers may experience uninsured property losses or sustained disruption to business or loss that may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations.We face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties. We rely on third parties, both in the United States and internationally in countries such as the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, China, Israel, and India, in a variety of ways, including to provide key components of our business infrastructure or to further our business objectives. These third parties may provide services to us and our clients or serve as partners in business activities. We rely on these third parties to fulfill their obligations to us, accurately inform us of relevant information and conduct their activities professionally and in a manner that reflects positively on us. In some instances, our regulators may hold us responsible for the performance of parties with which we have these relationships. Any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance with our expectations could result in operational issues, increased expenditures, regulatory actions, damage to our reputation or loss of clients, which could harm our business and operations, financial performance, strategic growth or reputation. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, payment processors, and other institutional clients, which may result in payment obligations to us or to our clients due to products arranged by us. Many of these transactions expose us to credit and market risk that may cause our counterparty or client to default. In addition, we are exposed to market risk when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the secured obligation. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, under our accounts receivable financing arrangements, we rely on information, such as invoices, contracts and other supporting documentation, provided by our clients and their account debtors to determine the amount of credit to extend. Similarly, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers' representations that their financial statements conform to U.S. GAAP (or other applicable accounting standards in foreign markets) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We also may rely on customer representations and certifications, or other audit or accountants' reports, with respect to the business and financial condition of our clients. Our financial condition, results of 23Table of Contentsoperations, financial reporting or reputation could be negatively affected if we rely on materially misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information. Our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are uncertain. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with U.S. GAAP and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition or results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential holders of our securities could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. We may also face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our securities from the NASDAQ Stock Market. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as the trading price of our securities, and could potentially subject us to litigation. We face risks associated with international operations. One important component of our strategy is to expand internationally. In 2012, we opened a banking branch in the United Kingdom, as well as a joint venture bank in China. We also currently have offices in Hong Kong, India and Israel but have agreed to sell our subsidiary in India. We plan to expand our operations in some of our current international markets. We may also expand our business beyond those markets. Our efforts to expand our business internationally carry with them certain risks, including risks arising from the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations, risks associated with leveraging and doing business with local business partners and other general operational risks. In addition, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, legal, regulatory and tax requirements and restrictions, uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, incremental requirement of management's attention and resources, differing technology standards or customer requirements, data security risks, cultural differences, political and economic risks, and financial risks, including currency and payment risks. These risks could adversely affect the success of our international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, we face risks that our employees and affiliates may fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing our international operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, U.K. Bribery Act, anti-corruption laws, and other foreign laws and regulations. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could, among other things, result in enforcement actions and fines against us, as well as limitations on our conduct, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Legal/Regulatory Risks We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, or result in higher costs to us, and the stringency of the regulatory framework applicable to us may increase if, and as, our asset size continues to grow. SVB Financial Group, including the Bank, is extensively regulated under federal and state laws and regulations governing financial institutions, including those imposed by the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and the California DBO, as well as various regulatory authorities that govern our global activities. Federal and state laws and regulations govern, restrict, limit or otherwise affect the activities in which we may engage, may affect our ability to expand our business over time, may result in an increase in our compliance costs, including higher FDIC insurance premiums, and may affect our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees. Further, the stringency of the federal bank prudential regulatory framework that applies to us may increase as our asset size grows. In particular, under the Dodd-Frank Act and current Federal Reserve Board regulations thereunder, certain enhanced prudential standards will apply to us if we reach or exceed $50 billion in total consolidated assets. In addition, a change in the applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy could have a material adverse effect on our business, including limiting or imposing conditions on the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. These laws and regulations also require financial institutions, including SVB Financial and the Bank, to maintain certain minimum levels of capital and meet 24Table of Contentsother minimum financial standards, which may require us to raise additional capital in the future, affect our ability to use our capital resources for other business purposes or affect our overall business strategies and plans. Furthermore, the Bank for International Settlement's Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has adopted new capital, leverage and liquidity guidelines under the Basel Accord (“Basel III”). The Federal Reserve Board has adopted regulations that generally align with these international standards, and the new Federal Reserve Board regulations have the effect of raising our capital requirements beyond those previously in place. The Federal Reserve Board also has adopted certain stress testing requirements, the results of which we are required to submit to the Federal Reserve Board and to disclose to the public. In addition, depending on the results of the stress tests, we could be required to raise additional capital or take certain other actions. Increased regulatory requirements (and the associated compliance costs), whether due to the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.We are subject to the Volcker Rule, which limits certain trading and investment activities and has required us to modify our historical venture capital fund investment and sponsorship business and activities.The Volcker Rule restricts, among other things, a bank's proprietary trading activities and a bank's ability to sponsor or invest in certain privately offered funds, including certain venture capital, hedge and private equity funds. Although we do not believe that we engage in any proprietary trading that is prohibited under the Volcker Rule, certain of our historical venture capital fund investment and sponsorship businesses and activities are affected by the rule. In particular, the Volcker Rule restricts or limits us from sponsoring or having ownership interests in “covered” funds including venture capital and private equity funds. In general, we must be in compliance with these restrictions by July 21, 2015; however, certain legacy investments and relationships are subject to an extended conformance period that ends in July 2016. The Federal Reserve Board has indicated that it intends to extend this conformance deadline to July 2017. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board may extend the conformance deadline for up to an additional five-year years (until July 2022) for investments that are considered illiquid. We intend to seek the maximum extensions (up to July 2022) available to us. Under this rule, we will have to wind-down, transfer, divest or otherwise ensure the termination or expiration of any prohibited interests prior to the end of the applicable conformance period. While we intend to seek the maximum extensions available to us, there is no assurance that we will be granted any of these extensions, and thus, we may be required to divest our prohibited interests within a short period of time and/or at possibly distressed prices. We estimate that our total venture capital and private equity fund investments deemed to be prohibited covered fund interests had an aggregate carrying value of approximately $246 million (and an aggregate fair value of approximately $338 million) as of December 31, 2014. These covered fund interests are comprised of interests attributable, solely, to us in our consolidated managed funds and certain of our non-marketable securities. These Volcker Rule restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our investment portfolio and results of operations. The actual impact from these restrictions will be dependent on a variety of factors, including our ability to obtain regulatory extensions, our ability to sell the investments, our carrying value at the time of any sale, the actual sales price realized, the timing of such sales, and any additional regulatory guidance or interpretations of the Volcker Rule.If we continue to grow and our total consolidated assets reach or exceed $50 billion, we will be subject to more stringent prudential standards required by the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve Board for large bank holding companies.Under the Federal Reserve Board’s enhanced prudential standard regulations, bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets are subject to more stringent prudential requirements. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the more stringent prudential standards include requirements for risk-based and leverage capital, liquidity, risk management, resolution planning, capital stress testing, single-party credit exposure limits, and early remediation --- all of which requires appropriate resources and planning. The Dodd-Frank Act permits, but does not require the Federal Reserve to apply to such large bank holding companies enhanced prudential standards in other areas, including short-term debt limits and enhanced public disclosures. As of December 31, 2014, our total consolidated assets were $39.3 billion. If we continue to grow, either organically or potentially by future acquisitions, and our total consolidated assets reach or exceed the $50 billion threshold, we will be subject to such enhanced prudential standards, which will impose more stringent requirements or limitations on our business, as well as increase our compliance costs. See the section entitled “Regulatory Matters”.25Table of ContentsWe face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. The Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration, and Internal Revenue Service. We are also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. Any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.If we were to violate, or fail to comply with, international, federal or state laws or regulations governing financial institutions, we could be subject to disciplinary action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. International, federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to financial institutions. Other regulatory bodies, including the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), the NASDAQ Stock Market, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA"), and state securities regulators, regulate investment advisers and broker-dealers, including our subsidiaries, SVB Asset Management and SVB Securities, as applicable. If SVB Financial Group were to violate, even if unintentionally or inadvertently, the laws governing public companies, financial institutions and broker-dealers, the regulatory authorities could take various actions against us, depending on the severity of the violation, such as imposing restrictions on how we conduct our business, revoking necessary licenses or authorizations, imposing censures, civil money penalties or fines, issuing cease and desist or other supervisory orders, and suspending or expelling from the securities business a firm, its officers or employees. Supervisory actions could result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums, higher levels of liquidity available to meet the Bank's financial needs and limitations on the activities of SVB Financial Group. These remedies and supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.Adverse results from litigation or governmental investigations can impact our business practices and operating results. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings, and may from time to time be involved in governmental investigations and inquiries, relating to matters that arise in connection with the conduct of our business. While we have not recognized a material accrual liability for lawsuits and claims filed or pending against us to date, the outcome of litigation and other legal and regulatory matters is inherently uncertain and it is possible that the actual results of one or more of such matters currently pending or threatened may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved, or judgments may be rendered, or fines or penalties assessed in matters for which we have no reserves. Adverse outcomes in lawsuits or investigations may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that may adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our businesses as they are presently being conducted.Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the SEC may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. Also, our global initiatives, as well as continuing trends towards the convergence of international accounting standards, such as rules that may be adopted under the International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), may result in our Company being subject to new or changing accounting and reporting standards. In addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. These changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition or results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retrospectively, in each case resulting in our revising or restating prior period financial statements.26Table of ContentsSVB Financial relies on warrant income, investment distributions and dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its cash revenues. SVB Financial is a holding company and is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives most of its cash revenues from three primary funding sources: warrant income, investment distributions, and dividends from its subsidiaries, primarily the Bank. These sources generate income for SVB Financial to pay operating costs and borrowing costs and to the extent there are any ---- borrowings, dividends, and share repurchases. Our equity warrant assets and investment interests are held by SVB Financial, and any income derived from those financial instruments are subject to a variety of factors as discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. Moreover, various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to SVB Financial. Also, SVB Financial's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. Anti-takeover provisions and federal law, particular those applicable to financial institutions, may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could prevent a merger or acquisition that may be attractive to stockholders and/or have a material adverse effect on our stock price. As a financial institution, we are subject to certain laws that could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, together with federal and state regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either Federal Reserve approval must be obtained or notice must be furnished to the Federal Reserve and not disapproved prior to any person or entity acquiring “control” of a state member bank, such as the Bank. In addition, DBO approval may be required in connection with the acquisition of control of the Bank. Moreover, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and certain other actions we may take or have taken could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if beneficial to our stockholders. These laws and provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock.Strategic/Reputation/Other Risks Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses. Concentration of risk, including by client industry, size or stage of client companies and client geography, increases the potential for significant losses in our business. While there may exist a great deal of diversity within each industry, our clients are concentrated by these general industry niches: technology, life science & healthcare, private equity/venture capital and premium wine. Our technology clients generally tend to be in the industries of hardware (semiconductors, communications, data storage and electronics), software and internet (such as infrastructure software, applications, software services, digital content and advertising technology), and energy and resource innovation. Our life science & healthcare clients are concentrated in the industries of biotechnology, medical devices, healthcare information technology and healthcare services. Many of our client companies are concentrated by certain stages within their life cycles, such as early-stage, mid-stage or later-stage, and many of these companies are venture capital-backed. We take deposits from these clients and are also continuing to increase our efforts to lend to larger clients and to make larger loans. In addition, our geographic focus on key domestic and international innovation markets, as well as premium wine markets, may increase our concentration risk. Our loan concentrations are derived from our borrowers engaging in similar activities or types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that could cause those borrowers to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. Any adverse effect on any of our areas of concentration could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to our concentrations, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. Decreases in the amount of equity capital available to our portfolio companies could adversely affect our business, growth and profitability. Our core strategy is focused on providing banking products and services to companies, including in particular to early-stage to mid-stage companies that receive financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capital or private equity firms, “angels,” and corporate investors. We derive a meaningful share of our deposits from these companies and provide them with loans as well as other banking products and services. In some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our venture capital or angel-backed client will receive additional rounds of equity capital from investors. If the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of new clients and investor financial support to our existing borrowers could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. Among the factors that have affected and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to our portfolio companies are the receptivity of the capital markets, the prevalence of IPO's or M&A activity of companies within our technology and life science & healthcare industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments, economic conditions in the 27Table of Contentstechnology, life science & healthcare and private equity/venture capital industries, and overall general economic conditions. Reduced capital markets valuations could reduce the amount of capital available to our client companies, including companies within our technology and life science & healthcare industry sectors. Because our business and strategy are largely based on this private equity/venture capital financing framework focused on our particular client niches, any material changes in the framework, including unfavorable economic conditions and adverse trends in investment or fund-raising levels, may have a material adverse effect on our business, strategy and overall profitability. We face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or future growth. We compete with other banks and specialty and diversified financial services companies and debt funds, some of which are larger than we are, which offer lending, leasing, payments, foreign currency exchange, other financial products and advisory services to our client base. We also compete with other alternative lenders, such as “marketplace” lenders, peer-to-peer lenders and other non-traditional lenders that have emerged in recent years. Moreover, we compete with non-financial services, particularly payment facilitators/processors or other nonbanking technology providers in the payments industry, which may offer specialized services to our client base. In addition, we compete with hedge funds and private equity funds. In some cases, our competitors focus their marketing on our industry sectors and seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies or special industries such as wineries. In other cases, some competitors may offer a broader range of financial products to our clients, and some competitors may offer a specialized set of specific products or service. When new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and/or credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share or ability to exploit new market opportunities. Our pricing and credit terms could deteriorate if we act to meet these competitive challenges, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. Similarly, competitive pressures could adversely affect the business, results of operations, financial condition or future growth of our non-banking services, including our payments services, as well as our access to capital and attractive investment opportunities for our funds business. Our ability to maintain or increase our market share depends on our ability to attract and maintain, as well as meet the needs of, existing and future clients.Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain or increase our market share. In particular, much of our success depends on our ability to attract early-stage or start-up companies and to retain those companies as they grow and mature successfully through the various stages of their life cycles. In order to maintain or increase our market share, we must meet the needs of existing and potential future clients. Not only must we adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards, but we must also innovate new products and services beyond industry standards in order to serve our clients, who are innovators themselves. A failure to achieve market acceptance for any new products or services we introduce, a failure to introduce products or services that the market demands, or the costs associated with developing, introducing and providing new products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, growth prospects and financial condition.We face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings and new business initiatives. We are engaged, and may in the future engage, in strategic activities domestically or internationally, including acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, investments or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful.We are focused on our long-term growth and have undertaken various strategic activities and business initiatives, many of which involve activities that are new to us, or in some cases, experimental in nature. For example, we are expanding our global presence and may engage in activities in jurisdictions where we have limited experience or where legal and regulatory requirements are less certain than in the United States. We are also expanding our payments processing capabilities to better serve our clients, including innovating new electronic payment processing solutions, developing new payments technologies, and supporting new or evolving disruptive payments systems, such as “bitcoin” and other virtual currencies. Given our evolving geographic and product diversification, our innovative product solutions, and our limited experience, these payment-related initiatives may subject us to, among other risks, increased business, reputation and operational risk, as well as more or more complex legal, regulatory and compliance costs and risks.Our ability to execute strategic activities and new business initiatives successfully will depend on a variety of factors. These factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating an acquired company or a new growth initiative into our business, operations, services, products, personnel and systems, operating effectively with any 28Table of Contentspartner with whom we elect to do business, meeting applicable regulatory requirements and obtaining applicable regulatory licenses or other approvals, hiring or retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting management's expectations, actually realizing the anticipated benefits of the activities, and overall general market conditions. Our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. In addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management's attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and potential liability. If we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation or growth prospects. In addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, in order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might require additional financing, which might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.We face certain risks associated with the pending sale of SVB India Finance Private Limited.On January 16, 2015, we announced that the Bank and certain of its subsidiaries had entered into a share purchase agreement to sell all of the outstanding capital stock of the Bank’s subsidiary, SVB India Finance Private Limited, a non-banking financial company in India (“SVBIF”), for a total sale price equal to the sum of SVBIF’s “share capital” and “reserves and surplus” accounts (its net asset value) as of a date shortly prior to the closing. Based on SVBIF’s balance sheet as of December 31, 2014, we estimate the total sale price will be approximately INR 3.0 billion (approximately $47.8 million, calculated based on the currency exchange rate as of February 5, 2015). The transaction value will be determined in Indian Rupees, and the U.S. dollar value that we receive will be dependent on the currency exchange rate at the time of the actual close of the transaction. Accordingly, volatility in the currency exchange rate between Indian Rupees and U.S. dollars could cause unexpected changes in the U.S. dollar value that we expect to receive from the sale of SVBIF. In addition, we may incur additional loan charge-offs related to SVBIF, which could impact the final closing sales price. Moreover, the closing of the transaction is subject to certain customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval by the Reserve Bank of India. There can be no assurance that the Reserve Bank of India will approve the sale or that we will otherwise be able to complete the sale based on the expected terms of the transaction, or within our expected time frame or at all.Our business reputation is important and any damage to it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our reputation is very important to sustain our business, as we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the venture capital and private equity communities, and the industries that we serve. Any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with SEC and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, our conduct of our business or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our risk management framework may not be effective, which could have a material adverse effect on our strategic planning and our mitigation of risks and/or losses, as well as have adverse regulatory consequences. We have implemented a risk management framework to identify and manage our risk exposure. This framework is comprised of various processes, systems and strategies, and is designed to manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including, among others, credit, market, liquidity, operational, financial, interest rate, legal and regulatory, compliance, strategic, reputational, fiduciary, global, currency, sovereign, and general economic risks. Our framework also includes financial, analytical, forecasting, or other modeling methodologies, which involves management assumptions and judgment. There is no assurance that our risk management framework will be effective under all circumstances or that it will adequately identify, manage or mitigate any risk or loss to us. If our risk management framework is not effective, we could suffer unexpected losses and our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. We may also be subject to potentially adverse regulatory consequences.Our stress testing processes rely on analytical and forecasting models that may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate, which could adversely affect the effectiveness of our strategic planning and our ability to pursue certain corporate goals. In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act and the Federal Reserve Board’s regulations thereunder, banking organizations with $10 billion to $50 billion in assets are required to perform annual capital stress tests. The results of our capital stress tests may require us to increase our regulatory capital, raise additional capital or take or decline to take certain other capital-related actions 29Table of Contentsunder certain circumstances. Our stress testing processes also rely on our use of analytical and forecasting models. These models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Furthermore, even if our assumptions are accurate predictors of future performance, the models they are based on may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or implementation. Also, the assumptions we utilize for our stress tests may not be met with regulatory approval, which could result in our stress tests receiving a failing grade. In addition to adversely affecting our reputation, failing our stress tests would likely preclude or delay our growth through acquisition, and would limit our ability to pay any cash dividends.The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:•actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition;•changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts;•failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates;•speculation in the press or investment community;•strategic actions by us or our competitors;•actions by institutional stockholders;•fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors;•general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry;•proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments;•anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or•domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance.The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, and future sales of our equity or equity-related securities. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation, as well as the loss of key employees.ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS