Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  Investing in The Hartford involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in The Hartford, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, any of which could have a significant or material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity of The Hartford. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by The Hartford with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  It is difficult for us to predict our potential exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and our ultimate liability may exceed our currently recorded reserves, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  We continue to receive asbestos and environmental claims. Significant uncertainty limits the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related expenses for both environmental and particularly asbestos claims. We believe that the actuarial tools and other techniques we employ to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional kinds of insurance exposure are less precise in estimating reserves for our asbestos and environmental exposures. Traditional actuarial reserving techniques cannot reasonably estimate the ultimate cost of these claims, particularly during periods where theories of law are in flux. Accordingly, the degree of variability of reserve estimates for these exposures is significantly greater than for other more traditional exposures. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their effect on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. Although potential Federal asbestos-related legislation has been considered in the Senate, it is uncertain whether such legislation will be considered or be enacted in the future and, if so, what its effect would be on our aggregate asbestos liabilities. Because of the significant uncertainties that limit the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related expenses for both environmental and particularly asbestos claims, the ultimate liabilities may exceed the currently recorded reserves. Any such additional liability cannot be reasonably estimated now but could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  The occurrence of one or more terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve or the threat of terrorism in general may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition or liquidity.  The occurrence of one or more terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve could result in substantially higher claims under our insurance policies than we have anticipated. Private sector catastrophe reinsurance is extremely limited and generally unavailable for terrorism losses caused by attacks with nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological weapons. Reinsurance coverage from the federal government under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, as extended through 2007, is also limited. Moreover, it is uncertain whether a federal terrorism risk insurance program similar to the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 will be enacted to cover events occurring after December 31, 2007. Accordingly, the effects of a terrorist attack in the geographic areas we serve may result in claims and related losses for which we do not have adequate reinsurance. This would likely cause us to increase our reserves, adversely affect our earnings during the period or periods affected and, if significant enough, could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Further, the continued threat of terrorism and the occurrence of terrorist attacks, as well as heightened security measures and military action in response to these threats and attacks, may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. These consequences could have an adverse effect on the value of the assets in our investment portfolio as well as those in our separate accounts. The continued threat of terrorism also could result in increased  20    Table of Contents  reinsurance prices and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. Terrorist attacks also could disrupt our operations centers in the U.S. or abroad. As a result, it is possible that any, or a combination of all, of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  We may incur losses due to our reinsurers being unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under reinsurance contracts and the availability, pricing and adequacy of reinsurance may not be sufficient to protect us against losses.  As an insurer, we frequently seek to reduce the losses that may arise from catastrophes, or other events that can cause unfavorable results of operations, through reinsurance. Under these reinsurance arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of our losses and related expenses; however, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Consequently, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims and we are subject to our reinsurers’ credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from them. Although we evaluate periodically the financial condition of our reinsurers to minimize our exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies, our reinsurers may become financially unsound or choose to dispute their contractual obligations by the time their financial obligations become due. The inability or unwillingness of any reinsurer to meet its financial obligations to us could negatively affect our consolidated operating results. In addition, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we are able to purchase. Recently, the price of reinsurance has increased significantly, and may continue to increase. No assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain continuously available to us to the same extent and on the same terms and rates as are currently available. If we were unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient and at prices that we consider acceptable, we would have to either accept an increase in our net liability exposure, reduce the amount of business we write, or develop other alternatives to reinsurance.  We are exposed to significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign exchange rates which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  We are exposed to significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. A rise in interest rates will reduce the net unrealized gain position of our investment portfolio, increase interest expense on our variable rate debt obligations and, if long-term interest rates rise dramatically within a six to twelve month time period, certain of our Life businesses may be exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate assets in an unrealized loss position. Due to the long-term nature of the liabilities associated with certain of our Life businesses, such as structured settlements and guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, sustained declines in long term interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging costs. Our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our Life businesses, such as variable annuities, where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the assets under management. In addition, certain of our Life products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline. We are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations. Sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans. Our primary foreign currency exchange risks are related to net income from foreign operations, non–U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries, the yen denominated individual fixed annuity product, and certain guaranteed benefits associated with the Japan variable annuity. These risks relate to the potential decreases in value and income resulting from a strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar. In general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will unfavorably affect net income from foreign operations, the value of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and realized gains or losses on the yen denominated individual fixed annuity product. In comparison, a strengthening of the Japanese yen in comparison to the U.S. dollar and other currencies may increase our exposure to the guarantee benefits associated with the Japan variable annuity. If significant, declines in equity prices, changes in U.S. interest rates and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  We may be unable to effectively mitigate the impact of equity market volatility on our financial position and results of operations arising from obligations under annuity product guarantees, which may affect our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  Our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our life businesses where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the assets under management. In addition, some of the products offered by these businesses, especially variable annuities, offer certain guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure as the equity markets decline. We are subject to equity market volatility related to these benefits, especially the guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (“GMWB”) and guaranteed minimum income benefit (“GMIB”) offered with variable annuity products. We use reinsurance structures and have modified benefit features to mitigate the exposure associated with GMDB. We also use reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments to minimize the claim exposure and the volatility of net income associated with the GMWB liability. While we believe that these and other actions we have taken mitigate the risks related to these benefits, we are subject to the risks that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay, that other risk management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior, combined with adverse market events, produces  21    Table of Contents  economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed, which individually or collectively may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  Regulatory proceedings or private claims relating to incentive compensation or payments made to brokers or other producers, alleged anti-competitive conduct and other sales practices could have a material adverse effect on us.  We have received multiple regulatory inquiries regarding our compensation arrangements with brokers and other producers. For example, in June 2004, the Company received a subpoena from the New York Attorney General’s Office in connection with its inquiry into compensation arrangements between brokers and carriers. In mid-September 2004 and subsequently, the Company has received additional subpoenas from the New York Attorney General’s Office, which relate more specifically to possible anti-competitive activity among brokers and insurers. On October 14, 2004, the New York Attorney General’s Office filed a civil complaint against Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., and Marsh, Inc. (collectively, “Marsh”). The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain insurance companies, including the Company, participated with Marsh in arrangements to submit inflated bids for business insurance and paid contingent commissions to ensure that Marsh would direct business to them. The Company was not joined as a defendant in the action, which has since settled.  Since the beginning of October 2004, the Company has received subpoenas or other information requests from Attorneys General and regulatory agencies in more than a dozen jurisdictions regarding broker compensation, possible anti-competitive activity and sales practices. These inquiries have concerned lines of business in both our Property & Casualty and Life operations. The Company may continue to receive additional subpoenas and other information requests from Attorneys General or other regulatory agencies regarding similar issues. The Company intends to continue cooperating fully with these investigations, and is conducting an internal review, with the assistance of outside counsel, regarding broker compensation issues in its Property & Casualty and Group Benefits operations. Although no regulatory action has been initiated against the Company in connection with the allegations described in the civil complaint, it is possible that one or more other regulatory agencies may pursue action against the Company or one or more of its employees in the future on this matter or on other similar matters. If such an action is brought, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company.  Regulatory and market-driven changes may affect our practices relating to the payment of incentive compensation to brokers and other producers, including changes that have been announced and those which may occur in the future, and could have a material adverse effect on us in the future.  We pay brokers and independent agents commissions and other forms of incentive compensation in connection with the sale of many of our insurance products. Since the New York Attorney General’s Office filed a civil complaint against Marsh on October 14, 2004, several of the largest national insurance brokers, including Marsh, Aon Corporation and Willis Group Holdings Limited, have announced that they have discontinued the use of contingent compensation arrangements. Other industry participants may make similar, or different, determinations in the future. In addition, legal, legislative, regulatory, business or other developments may require changes to industry practices relating to incentive compensation.  Pursuant to settlement agreements reached with regulators, several insurance companies have agreed to restrictions on the payment of contingent compensation relating to the placement of excess casualty insurance policies. These insurers have agreed that the restrictions may be extended in time, and to other property and casualty lines, if insurers in a given line or segment, that together represent more than 65% of the market share in the insurance line (based upon national gross written premiums), do not pay contingent compensation. On November 30, 2006, the New York Attorney General’s Office notified these insurers that the 65% threshold had been reached for a number of insurance lines, including personal automobile and homeowners insurance. As a result, beginning January 1, 2007, these insurers were prohibited from paying contingent compensation relating to the placement of these types of insurance. In addition, on December 21, 2006, Chubb Corporation agreed to forego the payment of contingent compensation for all P&C insurance lines pursuant to a settlement agreement reached with regulators. These insurers, including Chubb, have also agreed to support legislation and regulations to abolish contingent compensation and to require greater disclosure of compensation. At this time, it is not possible to predict the effect of these announced or potential future changes on our business or distribution strategies, but such changes could have a material adverse effect on us in the future.  Our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows in a particular period or periods may be adversely affected by unfavorable loss development.  Our success depends upon our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses that we insure. We establish loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all unpaid losses and loss expenses incurred with respect to premiums earned on the policies that we write. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, loss reserves are estimates of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost, less what has been paid to date. These estimates are based upon actuarial and statistical projections and on our assessment of currently available data, as well as estimates of claims severity and frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Loss reserve estimates are refined periodically as experience develops and claims are reported and settled. Establishing an appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process. Because of this uncertainty, it is possible that our reserves at any given time will prove inadequate. Furthermore, since estimates of aggregate loss costs  22    Table of Contents  for prior accident years are used in pricing our insurance products, we could later determine that our products were not priced adequately to cover actual losses and related loss expenses in order to generate a profit. To the extent we determine that actual losses and related loss expenses exceed our expectations and reserves recorded in our financial statements, we will be required to increase reserves. Increases in reserves would be recognized as an expense during the period or periods in which these determinations are made, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations for the related period or periods. Depending on the severity and timing of these determinations, this could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows in a particular quarterly or annual period.  We are particularly vulnerable to losses from the incidence and severity of catastrophes, both natural and man-made, the occurrence of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, consolidated results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarterly or annual period.  Our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various unpredictable events, including earthquakes, hurricanes, hailstorms, severe winter weather, fires, tornadoes, explosions and other natural or man-made disasters. We also face substantial exposure to losses resulting from acts of terrorism, disease pandemics and political instability. The geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposure for natural events occurring in a number of areas, including, but not limited to, hurricanes in Florida, the Gulf Coast, the Northeast and the Atlantic coast regions of the United States, and earthquakes in California and the New Madrid region of the United States. Further we expect that increases in the values and concentrations of insured property in these areas will increase the severity of catastrophic events in the future. In addition, in the aftermath of the 2004 and 2005 hurricane season, third-party catastrophe loss models for hurricane loss events were updated to incorporate medium-term forecasts of increased hurricane frequency and severity. Our life insurance operations are also exposed to risk of loss from catastrophes. For example, natural or man-made disasters or a disease pandemic such as could arise from avian flu, could significantly increase our mortality and morbidity experience. Policyholders may be unable to meet their obligations to pay premiums on our insurance policies or make deposits on our investment products. Our liquidity could be constrained by a catastrophe, or multiple catastrophes, which result in extraordinary losses or a downgrade of our debt or financial strength ratings. In addition, in part because accounting rules do not permit insurers to reserve for such catastrophic events until they occur, claims from catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, consolidated results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarterly or annual period.  Competitive activity may adversely affect our market share and profitability, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  The insurance industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include other insurers and, because many of our products include an investment component, securities firms, investment advisers, mutual funds, banks and other financial institutions. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the insurance and financial services industries resulting in increased competition from large, well-capitalized insurance and financial services firms that market products and services similar to ours. Many of these firms also have been able to increase their distribution systems through mergers or contractual arrangements. These competitors compete with us for producers such as brokers and independent agents. Larger competitors may have lower operating costs and an ability to absorb greater risk while maintaining their financial strength ratings, thereby allowing them to price their products more competitively. These highly competitive pressures could result in increased pricing pressures on a number of our products and services, particularly as competitors seek to win market share, and may harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. Because of the highly competitive nature of the insurance industry, there can be no assurance that we will continue to effectively compete with our industry rivals, or that competitive pressure will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  We may experience unfavorable judicial or legislative developments that would adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.  The Hartford is involved in claims litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, both as a liability insurer defending or providing indemnity for third-party claims brought against insureds and as an insurer defending coverage claims brought against it. The Hartford accounts for such activity through the establishment of unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. The Company is also involved in legal actions that do not arise in the ordinary course of business, some of which assert claims for substantial amounts. It is not possible to predict changes in the judicial and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of the adequacy of our loss reserves, particularly reserves for longer-tailed lines of business, including asbestos and environmental reserves. Pervasive or dramatic changes in the judicial environment relating to matters such as trends in the size of jury awards, developments in the law relating to the liability of insurers or tort defendants, and rulings concerning the availability or amount of certain types of damages could cause our ultimate liabilities to change from our current expectations. Similarly, changes in federal or state tort litigation laws or other applicable laws could have the same effect. To the extent that judicial or legislative developments cause our ultimate liabilities to increase from our current expectations, they could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.  23    Table of Contents  Potential changes in domestic and foreign regulation may increase our business costs and required capital levels, which could adversely affect our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition or liquidity.  We are subject to extensive laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. Moreover, they are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities, including foreign regulators, state insurance regulators, state securities administrators, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the New York Stock Exchange, the National Association of Securities Dealers, the U.S. Department of Justice, and state attorneys general, each of which exercises a degree of interpretive latitude. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may not result in compliance with another regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. In addition, there is risk that any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may change over time to our detriment, or that changes in the overall legal environment may, even absent any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a legal risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow and improve the profitability of our business.  State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled and licensed. State laws in the U.S. grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things:     •   licensing companies and agents to transact business;      •   calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements;      •   mandating certain insurance benefits;      •   regulating certain premium rates;      •   reviewing and approving policy forms;      •   regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements;      •   establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards;      •   fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts;      •   approving changes in control of insurance companies;      •   restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates;      •   establishing assessments and surcharges for guaranty funds, second-injury funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements; and      •   regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.    State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Our international operations are subject to regulation in the relevant jurisdictions in which they operate, which in many ways is similar to the state regulation outlined above, with similar related restrictions. Our asset management operations are also subject to extensive regulation in the various jurisdictions where they operate. These regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets or investment advisory clients and generally grant supervisory authorities broad administrative powers. Changes in all of these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Compliance with these laws and regulations is also time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may increase materially our direct and indirect compliance costs and other expenses of doing business, thus having an adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  24    Table of Contents  Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by general domestic and international economic and business conditions that are less favorable than anticipated.  Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of business we conduct. For example, in an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and consumer spending, the demand for financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. Further, given that we offer our products and services in North America, Japan, Europe and South America, we are exposed to these risks in multiple geographic locations. Our operations are subject to different local political, regulatory, business and financial risks and challenges which may affect the demand for our products and services, the value of our investment portfolio, the required levels of our capital and surplus, and the credit quality of local counterparties. These risks include, for example, political, social or economic instability in countries in which we operate, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, credit risks of our local borrowers and counterparties, lack of local business experience in certain markets, and, in certain cases, risks associated with the potential incompatibility with partners. Additionally, some of our recent growth is due to our expansion into new markets for our investment products, primarily in Japan. During 2006, our sales of investment products in Japan declined significantly from the prior year, as competition increased from both domestic and foreign competitors. Looking forward, our overall success in these new markets will depend on our ability to succeed despite differing and dynamic economic, social and political conditions. We may not succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business and we cannot guarantee that the inability to successfully address the risks related to economic conditions in all of the geographic locations where we conduct business will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  We may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future distribution channels.  We distribute our annuity, life and certain property and casualty insurance products through a variety of distribution channels, including brokers, independent agents, broker-dealers, banks, wholesalers, affinity partners, our own internal sales force and other third party organizations. In some areas of our business, we generate a significant portion of our business through individual third party arrangements. For example, we generated approximately 66% of our personal lines earned premium in 2006 under an exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP that continues until January 1, 2020. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. An interruption in our continuing relationship with certain of these third parties could materially affect our ability to market our products.  Our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely affected by the emergence of unexpected and unintended claim and coverage issues.  As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may either extend coverage beyond our underwriting intent or increase the frequency or severity of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued and this liability may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity at the time it becomes known.  We may experience a downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings which may make our products less attractive, increase our cost of capital, and inhibit our ability to refinance our debt, which would have an adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  Financial strength and credit ratings, including commercial paper ratings, have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Rating organizations assign ratings based upon several factors. While most of the factors relate to the rated company, some of the factors relate to the views of the rating organization, general economic conditions, and circumstances outside the rated company’s control. In addition, rating organizations may employ different models and formulas to assess the financial strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating organizations have, in their discretion, altered these models. Changes to the models, general economic conditions, or circumstances outside our control could impact a rating organization’s judgment of its rating and the subsequent rating it assigns us. We cannot predict what actions rating organizations may take, or what actions we may be required to take in response to the actions of rating organizations, which may adversely affect us. Our financial strength ratings, which are intended to measure our ability to meet policyholder obligations, are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of our products and, as a result, our competitiveness. A downgrade in our financial strength ratings, or an announced potential downgrade, of one of our principal insurance subsidiaries could affect our competitive position in the insurance industry and make it more difficult for us to market our products, as potential customers may select companies with higher financial strength ratings. The interest rates we pay on our borrowings are largely dependent on our credit ratings. A downgrade of our credit ratings, or an announced potential downgrade, could affect our ability to raise additional debt with terms and conditions similar to our current debt, and accordingly, likely increase our cost of capital. In addition, a downgrade of our credit ratings could make it more difficult to raise capital to refinance any maturing debt obligations, to support business growth at our insurance subsidiaries and to maintain or improve the current financial strength ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries described above. As a result, it is possible that any, or a  25    Table of Contents  combination of all, of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  Limits on the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us may adversely affect our liquidity.  The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. is a holding company with no significant operations. Our principal asset is the stock of our insurance subsidiaries. State insurance regulatory authorities limit the payment of dividends by insurance subsidiaries. In addition, competitive pressures generally require certain of our insurance subsidiaries to maintain financial strength ratings. These restrictions and other regulatory requirements affect the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to make dividend payments. Limits on the ability of the insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends could adversely affect our liquidity, including our ability to pay dividends to shareholders and service our debt.  As a property and casualty insurer, the premium rates we are able to charge and the profits we are able to obtain are affected by the actions of state insurance departments that regulate our business, the cyclical nature of the business in which we compete and our ability to adequately price the risks we underwrite, which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in a particular quarterly or annual period or periods.  Pricing adequacy depends on a number of factors, including the ability to obtain regulatory approval for rate changes, proper evaluation of underwriting risks, the ability to project future loss cost frequency and severity based on historical loss experience adjusted for known trends, our response to rate actions taken by competitors, and expectations about regulatory and legal developments and expense levels. We seek to price our property and casualty insurance policies such that insurance premiums and future net investment income earned on premiums received will provide for an acceptable profit in excess of underwriting expenses and the cost of paying claims.  State insurance departments that regulate us often propose premium rate changes for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer, and may not allow us to reach targeted levels of profitability. In addition to regulating rates, certain states have enacted laws that require a property and casualty insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities, joint underwriting associations and other residual market plans, or to offer coverage to all consumers, often restricting an insurer’s ability to charge the price it might otherwise charge. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of business at lower than desired rates, participate in the operating losses of residual market plans or pay assessments to fund operating deficits of state-sponsored funds, possibly leading to an unacceptable returns on equity. Laws and regulations of many states also limit an insurer’s ability to withdraw from one or more lines of insurance in the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. Additionally, certain states require insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the state. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in a particular quarterly or annual period or periods.  Additionally, the property and casualty insurance market is historically cyclical, experiencing periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively low levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. Prices tend to increase for a particular line of business when insurance carriers have incurred significant losses in that line of business in the recent past or when the industry as a whole commits less of its capital to writing exposures in that line of business. Prices tend to decrease when recent loss experience has been favorable or when competition among insurance carriers increases. In a number of product lines and states, we are currently experiencing premium rate reductions. In these product lines and states, there is a risk that the premium we charge may ultimately prove to be inadequate as reported losses emerge. Even in a period of rate increases, there is a risk that regulatory constraints, price competition or incorrect pricing assumptions could prevent us from achieving targeted returns. Inadequate pricing could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in a particular quarterly or annual period or periods.  If we are unable to maintain the availability of our systems and safeguard the security of our data due to the occurrence of disasters or other unanticipated events, our ability to conduct business may be compromised, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  We use computer systems to store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer and company data and information. Our computer, information technology and telecommunications systems, in turn, interface with and rely upon third-party systems. Our business is highly dependent on our ability, and the ability of certain affiliated third parties, to access these systems to perform necessary business functions, such as providing insurance quotes, processing premium payments, making changes to existing policies, filing and paying claims, and providing customer support. Systems failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business and hurt our relationships with our business partners and customers. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or war, our systems may be inaccessible to our employees, customers or business partners for an extended period of time. Even if our employees are able to report to work, they may be unable to perform their duties for an extended period of time if our data or systems are disabled or destroyed. Our systems could also be subject to physical and electronic break-ins, and subject to similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our systems. This may impede or interrupt our business operations and may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition or liquidity.  26    Table of Contents  If we experience difficulties arising from outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct business may be compromised.  We outsource certain technology and business functions to third parties and expect to do so selectively in the future. If we do not effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy, third party providers do not perform as anticipated, or we experience problems with a transition, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business that may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in a particular quarterly or annual period or periods.  Potential changes in Federal or State tax laws could adversely affect our business, consolidated operating results or financial condition.  Many of the products that the Company sells currently benefit from one or more forms of tax-favored status under current federal and state income tax regimes. For example, the Company sells life insurance policies which benefit from the deferral or elimination of taxation on earnings accrued under the policy, as well as permanent exclusion of certain death benefits that may be paid to policyholders’ beneficiaries. We also sell annuity contracts which allow the policyholders to defer the recognition of taxable income earned within the contract. Other products that the Company sells also enjoy similar, as well as other, types of tax advantages. The Company also benefits from certain tax benefits, including but not limited to, tax-exempt bond interest, dividends-received deductions, tax credits (such as foreign tax credits), and insurance reserve deductions.  There is risk that federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company or its policyholders. This could occur in the context of deficit reduction or several types of fundamental tax reform. The effects of any such changes could result in materially lower product sales, lapses of policies currently held, and/or materially higher corporate taxes that would be incurred by the Company.     Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS