Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  Investing in The Hartford involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in The Hartford, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, any of which could have a significant or material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity of The Hartford. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by The Hartford with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  We have been materially adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally, and may be materially adversely affected if these conditions persist or deteriorate further in 2009 or if our planned initiatives are not effective.  Markets in the United States and elsewhere have experienced extreme volatility and disruption for more than 12 months, due largely to the stresses affecting the global banking system, which accelerated significantly in the second half of 2008. The United States, Europe and Japan have entered a severe recession that is likely to persist well into and perhaps through and even beyond 2009, despite past and expected governmental intervention in the world’s major economies. These circumstances have exerted significant downward pressure on prices of equity securities and virtually all other asset classes and have resulted in substantially increased market volatility, severely constrained credit and capital markets, particularly for financial institutions, and an overall loss of investor confidence. Economic conditions have continued to deteriorate in early 2009.  Like other financial institutions and particularly life insurers, which face significant financial and capital markets risk in their operations, we have been adversely affected, to a significant extent, by these conditions. Among other effects, we incurred significant investment losses and other charges in 2008, notably with respect to deferred acquisition costs and goodwill associated with our variable annuity and international businesses, which resulted in a net loss for the fourth quarter and the full year. Our unrealized loss position also increased substantially in 2008. The unanticipated, severe decline in the equity markets also caused material increases to our liabilities in connection with certain annuity products, a line of business in which we have significant concentration. Concerns related to investment losses, liabilities arising from variable annuity products and capital pressures, which led to severe pressure on our stock price in 2008, are continuing in 2009. As detailed in the following risk factors, we expect to continue to face significant challenges and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our results, financial condition and prospects.  Our capital position declined in 2008 relative to 2007, notwithstanding our capital-raising transaction with Allianz SE in October 2008. We expect continued pressure on our capital position in 2009. Further significant declines in our capital position could impair our ability to support the scale of our business as currently constituted and to absorb continuing operating losses and liabilities under our customer contracts and our overall competitiveness. We have taken a number of steps to preserve capital and mitigate risk, among them launching a range of initiatives to reduce risks associated with our various lines of business, applying for federal funds under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) and looking across the enterprise for additional opportunities to reduce risk. These initiatives include modifying product features, adjusting our hedging activities and mitigating risks in our investment portfolio, and could also include discontinuing or restructuring certain business lines. Like other companies, we are also evaluating our expense base in light of expected contractions in certain of our business lines and have further reduced our dividend rate. Taken as a whole, these actions may not be effective, especially if the global economy experiences further shocks. Even if effective, certain measures may have unintended consequences. For example, rebalancing our hedging program may better protect our statutory surplus, but may also result in greater U.S. GAAP earnings volatility. These actions may also entail additional costs or result in further impairment or other charges or adversely affect our ability to compete successfully in an increasingly difficult consumer market.  On February 6, 2009, Moody’s Investor Services downgraded our long-term debt rating to “Baa1” and the financial strength ratings of our principal subsidiaries to “A1”. On February 9, 2009, Fitch Ratings downgraded our long-term debt rating to “BBB” and the financial strength ratings of our principal subsidiaries to “A” (in the case of our life subsidiaries) and “A+” (in the case of our property and casualty subsidiaries) and Standard & Poor’s downgraded our counterparty credit rating to “A-”. If our planned initiatives fail to mitigate the impacts on the Company of the current recession, or if the current recession is even more severe than expected, we may also experience further downgrades of our financial strength and credit ratings. See Ratings within Capital Resources and Liquidity of the MD&A. While reductions in ratings may ease pressure on our capital position, it could also have negative implications for our competitive position. We may also need to raise additional capital or consider other transactions to manage our capital position and liquidity or further reduce our exposure to market and financial risks. We may not be able to raise sufficient capital as and when required if the financial markets remain in turmoil, and any capital we raise may be on terms that are dilutive to existing shareholders or otherwise unfavorable to us. Any sales of securities or other assets that we may carry out may be completed on unfavorable terms or cause us to incur charges, and we would lose the potential for market upside on those assets in a market recovery. If our business continues to experience significant challenges, we may face other pressures, such as employee retention issues and potential loss of distributors for our products.  Other developments relating to the current economic environment and financial crisis may also significantly affect our operations and prospects in ways that we cannot predict. For example, U.S. and overseas governmental or regulatory authorities, including the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”), the New York Stock Exchange or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), may implement enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or otherwise stabilize the institutions under their supervision. New regulations will likely affect critical matters, including capital requirements, and published proposals by insurance regulatory authorities that could reduce the pressure on our capital position may not be adopted or may be adopted in a form that does not afford as much capital relief as anticipated. If we fail to manage the impact of these developments effectively, our prospects, results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.   22    Table of Contents  The markets in the United States and elsewhere have been experiencing extreme and unprecedented volatility and disruption. We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, and foreign exchange rates which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  The markets in the United States and elsewhere have been experiencing and are expected to continue to experience extreme and unprecedented volatility and disruption. We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates.  One important exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our Life businesses, such as variable annuities, where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the assets under management. During the course of 2008, the significant declines in equity markets have negatively impacted assets under management. As a result, fee income earned from those assets has also been negatively impacted. In addition, certain of our Life products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential obligation and statutory capital exposure should equity markets decline. Due to declines in equity markets during 2008, our liability for these guaranteed benefits has significantly increased and our statutory capital position has decreased. Further sustained declines in equity markets during 2009 may result in the need to devote significant additional capital to support these products. We are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations. Sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns are likely to have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans.  Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. A rise in interest rates, in the absence of other countervailing changes, will increase the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio and, if long-term interest rates rise dramatically within a six to twelve month time period, certain of our Life businesses may be exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate assets in an unrealized loss position. Due to the long-term nature of the liabilities associated with certain of our Life businesses, such as structured settlements and guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, sustained declines in long term interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging costs. In other situations, declines in interest rates or changes in credit spreads may result in reducing the duration of certain Life liabilities, creating asset liability duration mismatches and lower spread income.  Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. The recent widening of credit spreads has contributed to the increase in the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio of $12.5 billion in 2008, before DAC effects and tax, and has also contributed to the increase in other than temporary impairments. If issuer credit spreads continue to widen significantly over an extended period of time, it would likely exacerbate these effects, resulting in greater and additional other-than-temporary impairments. Increased losses have also occurred associated with credit based non-qualifying derivatives where the Company assumes credit exposure. If credit spreads tighten significantly, it will reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturities. In addition, a reduction in market liquidity has made it difficult to value certain of our securities as trading has become less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may be more susceptible to significant period to period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition.  Our statutory surplus is also impacted by widening credit spreads as a result of the accounting for the assets and liabilities on our fixed market value adjusted (“MVA”) annuities. Statutory separate account assets supporting the fixed MVA annuities are recorded at fair value. In determining the statutory reserve for the fixed MVA annuities we are required to use current crediting rates in the U.S. and Japanese LIBOR in Japan. In many capital market scenarios, current crediting rates in the U.S. are highly correlated with market rates implicit in the fair value of statutory separate account assets. As a result, the change in the statutory reserve from period to period will likely substantially offset the change in the fair value of the statutory separate account assets. However, in periods of volatile credit markets, such as we are now experiencing, actual credit spreads on investment assets may increase sharply for certain sub-sectors of the overall credit market, resulting in statutory separate account asset market value losses. As actual credit spreads are not fully reflected in current crediting rates in the U.S. or Japanese LIBOR in Japan, the calculation of statutory reserves will not substantially offset the change in fair value of the statutory separate account assets resulting in reductions in statutory surplus. This has resulted and may continue to result in the need to devote significant additional capital to support the product.  Our primary foreign currency exchange risks are related to net income from foreign operations, non–U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries, our yen-denominated individual fixed annuity product, and certain guaranteed benefits associated with the Japan and U.K. variable annuities. These risks relate to potential decreases in value and income resulting from a strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar. In general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will unfavorably affect net income from foreign operations, the value of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and realized gains or losses on the yen denominated individual fixed annuity product. In comparison, a strengthening of the Japanese yen or British pound in comparison to the U.S. dollar and other currencies will increase our exposure to the guarantee benefits associated with the Japan or U.K. variable annuities. Correspondingly, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to other currencies will increase our exposure to the U.S. variable annuity guarantee benefits where policyholders have elected to invest in international funds.  If significant, further declines in equity prices, changes in U.S. interest rates, changes in credit spreads and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, individually or in combination, could continue to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and liquidity both directly and indirectly by creating competitive and other pressures such as employee retention issues and the potential loss of distributors for our products.   23    Table of Contents  In addition, in the conduct of our business, there could be scenarios where in order to reduce risks, fulfill our obligations or to raise incremental liquidity, we would sell assets at a loss for a variety of reasons including the unrealized loss position in our overall investment portfolio and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. These scenarios could include selling assets as the Company reduces its securities lending program.  Declines in equity markets and changes in interest rates and credit spreads can also negatively impact the fair values of each of our segments. If a significant decline in the fair value of a segment occurred and this resulted in an excess of that segment’s book value over fair value, the goodwill assigned to that segment might be impaired and could cause the Company to record a charge to impair a part or all of the related goodwill assets, as occurred in the fourth quarter of 2008 with respect to our Individual Annuity and International reporting units. See impairment of goodwill risk factor for further information on this risk.  We may be unable to effectively mitigate the impact of equity market volatility arising from obligations under annuity product guarantees, which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  Some of the products offered by our life businesses, especially variable annuities, offer certain guaranteed benefits which, as a result of any decline in equity markets would not only result in lower earnings, but may also increase our exposure to liability for benefit claims. During the course of 2008, as equity markets declined, our liability for guaranteed benefits significantly increased. We are also subject to equity market volatility related to these benefits, especially the guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (“GMWB”), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit (“GMAB”) and guaranteed minimum income benefit (“GMIB”) offered with variable annuity products. As of December 31, 2008, the liability for GMWB and GMAB was $6.6 billion and $0, respectively. The liability for GMIB and GMDB was a combined $473, net of reinsurance as of December 31, 2008. We use reinsurance structures and have modified benefit features to mitigate the exposure associated with GMDB. We also use reinsurance in combination with a modification of benefit features and derivative instruments to minimize the claim exposure and to reduce the volatility of net income associated with the GMWB liability. However, due to the severe economic conditions in the fourth quarter of 2008, we have adjusted our risk management program to place greater relative emphasis on the protection of statutory surplus. This shift in relative emphasis will likely result in greater U.S. GAAP earnings volatility. While we believe that these and other actions we have taken serve to improve the efficiency by which we manage the risks related to these benefits, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay, and are subject to the risk that other management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed, which individually or collectively may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  The amount of statutory capital that we have and the amount of statutory capital that we must hold to maintain our financial strength and credit ratings and meet other requirements can vary significantly from time to time and is sensitive to a number of factors outside of our control, including equity market, credit market, interest rate and foreign currency conditions, changes in policyholder behavior and changes in rating agency models.  We conduct the vast majority of our business through licensed insurance company subsidiaries. Accounting standards and statutory capital and reserve requirements for these entities are prescribed by the applicable insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”). Insurance regulators have established regulations that provide minimum capitalization requirements based on risk-based capital (“RBC”) formulas for both life and property and casualty companies. The RBC formula for life companies establishes capital requirements relating to insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks, including equity, interest rate and expense recovery risks associated with variable annuities and group annuities that contain death benefits or certain living benefits. The RBC formula for property and casualty companies adjusts statutory surplus levels for certain underwriting, asset, credit and off-balance sheet risks.  In any particular year, statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios may increase or decrease depending on a variety of factors – the amount of statutory income or losses generated by our insurance subsidiaries (which itself is sensitive to equity market and credit market conditions), the amount of additional capital our insurance subsidiaries must hold to support business growth, changes in equity market levels, the value of certain fixed-income and equity securities in our investment portfolio, the value of certain derivative instruments, changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, as well as changes to the NAIC RBC formulas. Most of these factors are outside of the Company’s control. The Company’s financial strength and credit ratings are significantly influenced by the statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios of our insurance company subsidiaries. In addition, rating agencies may implement changes to their internal models that have the effect of increasing or decreasing the amount of statutory capital we must hold in order to maintain our current ratings. Also, in extreme scenarios of equity market declines, the amount of additional statutory reserves that we are required to hold for our variable annuity guarantees increases at a greater than linear rate. This reduces the statutory surplus used in calculating our RBC ratios. When equity markets increase, surplus levels and RBC ratios will generally increase, however, as a result of a number of factors and market conditions, including the level of hedging costs and other risk transfer activities, reserve requirements for death and living benefit guarantees and RBC requirements could increase resulting in lower RBC ratios. Due to all of these factors, projecting statutory capital and the related RBC ratios is complex. During February 2009, our financial strength and credit ratings have been downgraded by multiple rating agencies. To the extent that our statutory capital resources are deemed to be insufficient to maintain a particular rating by one or more rating agencies, we may seek to raise additional capital through public or private equity or debt financing. Alternatively, if we were not to raise additional capital in such a scenario, either at our discretion or because we were unable to do so, our financial strength and credit ratings might be further downgraded by one or more rating agencies.   24    Table of Contents  Our application to participate in the CPP may not be approved or, if approved, may subject us to additional restrictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.  In order to supplement our capital position, we have applied to the U.S. Treasury Department to receive funds from its Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”). If approved, we estimate that we may be eligible to receive between $1.1 billion and $3.4 billion in funds. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be approved to participate in the CPP or, if approved, that we will receive an amount consistent with our estimates. If other insurance companies are approved to participate in the CPP but we are not so approved, it could create negative market perceptions of our financial strength and capital position, reduce our available options to raise capital and otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  If we do receive approval to participate in the CPP, receipt of CPP funds will subject us to additional regulation and restrictions that may have a negative impact on our operations. In order to be eligible to receive CPP funds, we agreed to acquire (contingent on our approval to participate in the CPP) the parent company of Federal Trust Bank (“FTB”), a federally chartered, FDIC-insured thrift. As required by the OTS as a condition to consummating that acquisition, we have since been approved by the OTS to become a savings and loan holding company. As a result, if we are approved to participate in the CPP and consummate the acquisition of FTB, we will be subject to supervision and examination by the OTS. New legislation or regulations may also be adopted that would impose additional constraints on the operations of recipients of CPP funds. Such restrictions, combined with OTS oversight, may make it more difficult to recruit and retain key employees and otherwise restrict our flexibility to respond to changing market conditions. In addition, if we consummate the acquisition of FTB, we have agreed with OTS to contribute approximately $100 to the capital of FTB and to serve as a source of strength to FTB, which could require the contribution of additional capital to FTB in the future. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  We have experienced and may experience additional future downgrades in our financial strength or credit ratings, which may make our products less attractive, increase our cost of capital and inhibit our ability to refinance our debt, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  Financial strength and credit ratings, including commercial paper ratings, are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. During February 2009, our financial strength and credit ratings have been downgraded by multiple rating agencies. See our ratings in Capital Resources and Liquidity section of the MD&A. Rating agencies assign ratings based upon several factors. While most of the factors relate to the rated company, some of the factors relate to the views of the rating agency, general economic conditions, and circumstances outside the rated company’s control. In addition, rating agencies may employ different models and formulas to assess the financial strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies have, in their discretion, altered these models. Changes to the models, general economic conditions, or circumstances outside our control could impact a rating agency’s judgment of its rating and the rating it assigns us. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which may adversely affect us.  Our financial strength ratings, which are intended to measure our ability to meet policyholder obligations, are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of our products and, as a result, our competitiveness. The recent downgrades we have experienced, a further downgrade, or an announced potential further downgrade, in the rating of our financial strength or of one of our principal insurance subsidiaries could affect our competitive position in the insurance industry and make it more difficult for us to market our products, as potential customers may select companies with higher financial strength ratings thereby reducing future sales of our products and lowering future earnings.  The recent downgrades we have experienced, a further downgrade of our credit ratings, or an announced potential further downgrade, could affect our ability to raise additional debt with terms and conditions similar to our current debt, or at all, and accordingly, would likely increase our cost of capital. The recent downgrades we have experienced, or a further downgrade of our credit ratings could also make it more difficult to raise capital to refinance any maturing debt obligations, to support business growth at our insurance subsidiaries and to maintain or improve the current financial strength ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries described above. After taking into consideration rating agency actions through February 10, 2009, a downgrade of three levels below our current insurance financial strength levels could begin to trigger potentially material collateral calls on certain of our derivative instruments and could also trigger counterparty rights to terminate derivative relationships, both of which could limit our ability to purchase additional derivative instruments. If any of these negative events were to occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely affected.   25    Table of Contents  Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by general domestic and international economic and business conditions that are less favorable than anticipated.  Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of business we conduct. For example, in an economic downturn such as the current financial crisis characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for financial and insurance products has been adversely affected. Further, given that we offer our products and services in North America, Japan, Europe and South America, we are exposed to these risks in multiple geographic locations. Our operations are subject to different local political, regulatory, business and financial risks and challenges, which may affect the demand for our products and services, the value of our investment portfolio, the required levels of our capital and surplus and the credit quality of local counterparties. These risks include, for example, political, social or economic instability in countries in which we operate, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, credit risks of our local counterparties, lack of local business experience in certain markets and, in certain cases, risks associated with potential incompatibility with partners. We may not succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business, and we cannot guarantee that the inability to successfully address the risks related to economic conditions in all of the geographic locations where we conduct business will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Our valuations of many of our financial instruments include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  The following financial instruments are carried at fair value in the Company’s consolidated financial statements: fixed maturities, equity securities, freestanding and embedded derivatives, and separate account assets. The Company has categorized these securities into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). In many situations, inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or liability position may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In these situations, the Company will determine the level in which the fair value falls based upon the lowest level input that is significant to the determination of the fair value.  The determination of fair values are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.  During periods of market disruption such as we are currently experiencing, including periods of rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it has been and will likely continue to be difficult to value certain of our securities, such as Alt-A, subprime mortgage backed and CMBS securities, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation thereby resulting in values which may differ materially from the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2008, 14%, 70% and 16% of our available for sale securities were considered to be Level 1, 2 and 3, respectively.  Evaluation of available-for-sale securities for other than temporary impairment involves subjective determinations and could materially impact our results of operations.   The evaluation of impairments is a quantitative and qualitative process, which is subject to risks and uncertainties and is intended to determine whether declines in the fair value of investments should be recognized in current period earnings. The risks and uncertainties include changes in general economic conditions, the issuer’s financial condition or future recovery prospects, the effects of changes in interest rates or credit spreads and the expected recovery period. For securitized financial assets with contractual cash flows, the Company currently uses its best estimate of cash flows over the life of the security under severe recession scenarios. In addition, estimating future cash flows involves incorporating information received from third party sources and making internal assumptions and judgments regarding the future performance of the underlying collateral and assessing the probability that an adverse change in future cash flows has occurred. The determination of the amount of other than temporary impairments is based upon our quarterly evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available.   26    Table of Contents  Additionally, our management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses their best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Inherent in management’s evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; (vi) our intent and ability to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value; (vii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities; and (viii) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company concluded that approximately $4.0 billion of unrealized losses were other than temporarily impaired. Additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  Losses due to nonperformance or defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities (which include structured securities such as commercial mortgage backed securities and residential mortgage backed securities or other high yielding bonds) or reinsurance and derivative instrument counterparties, could have a material adverse effect on the value of our investments, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  Issuers or borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud government intervention or other reasons. Such defaults could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, the underlying assets supporting our structured securities may deteriorate causing these securities to incur losses. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company incurred losses of $46 on derivative instruments due to counterparty default related to the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holding, Inc.  Our investment portfolio includes investment securities in the financial services sector that have experienced nonperformance or defaults recently. Further nonperformance or defaults could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, the value of our investments in hybrid securities, perpetual preferred securities, or other equity securities in the financial services sector may be significantly impaired if the issuers of such securities defer the payment of optional coupons or dividends, are forced to accept government support or intervention, or grant majority equity stakes to their respective governments.  The Company is not exposed to any credit concentration risk of a single issuer greater than 10% of the Company’s stockholders’ equity other than U.S. government and U.S. government agencies backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government and the Japanese government. However, if the Company’s creditors are acquired, merge or otherwise consolidate with other creditors of the Company’s, the Company’s credit concentration risk could increase above the 10% threshold, for a period of time, until the Company is able to sell securities to get back in compliance with the established investment credit policies.  The availability of the Company’s commercial paper program is dependent upon a variety of factors including the Company’s ratings and market conditions.  The Company’s maximum borrowings available under its commercial paper program are $2.0 billion. The Company’s ability to borrow under its commercial paper program is dependent upon market conditions. On October 7, 2008, The Federal Reserve Board authorized the Commercial Paper Funding Facility (“CPFF”) to improve liquidity in short-term funding markets by increasing the availability of term commercial paper funding to issuers and by providing greater assurance to both issuers and investors that firms will be able to roll over their maturing commercial paper. The Company registered with the CPFF in order to sell up to a maximum of $375 to the facility, of which it has issued the full amount as of December 31, 2008. The Company’s commercial paper must be rated A-1/P-1/F1 by at least two ratings agencies to be eligible for the program. Moody’s, S&P and Fitch all recently downgraded our commercial paper rating, rendering the Company ineligible to sell additional commercial paper under the CPFF program going forward. As a result, we will be required to pay the maturing commercial paper issued under the CPFF program from existing sources of liquidity. Future deterioration of our capital position at a time when we are unable to access the commercial paper markets due to prevailing market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity.   27    Table of Contents  If assumptions used in estimating future gross profits differ from actual experience, we may be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC and increase reserves for guaranteed minimum death benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  The Company defers acquisition costs associated with the sales of its universal and variable life and variable annuity products. These costs are amortized over the expected life of the contracts. The remaining deferred but not yet amortized cost is referred to as the Deferred Acquisition Cost (“DAC”) asset. We amortize these costs in proportion to the present value of estimated gross profits. The Company also establishes reserves for GMDB using components of estimated gross profits (“EGPs”). The projection of estimated gross profits requires the use of certain assumptions, principally related to separate account fund returns in excess of amounts credited to policyholders, surrender and lapse rates, interest margin, mortality, and hedging costs. Of these factors, we anticipate that changes in investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. However, other factors such as those the Company might employ to reduce risk, such as the cost of hedging or other risk mitigating techniques could also significantly reduce estimates of future gross profits. Estimating future gross profits is a complex process requiring considerable judgment and the forecasting of events well into the future. If our assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, hedging costs or costs to employ other risk mitigating techniques prove to be inaccurate or if significant or sustained equity market declines persist, we could be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, and increase reserves for GMDB which would result in a charge to net income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recorded a $932, after-tax, charge related to the unlock. Since September 30, 2008, the date of the last unlock, the actual return on U.S. variable annuity assets has been 21% below our estimated aggregate return. The Company estimates the actual return would need to drop by an additional 6% from December 31, 2008 before EGPs in the Company’s models fall outside of the statistical ranges of reasonable EGPs. Since September 30, 2008, the date of the last unlock, the actual return on Japan variable annuity assets has been 15.5% below our estimated aggregate return. The Company estimates the actual return would need to drop by an additional 7.5% from December 31, 2008 before EGPs in the Company’s models fall outside of the statistical ranges of reasonable EGPs.  If our businesses do not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We test goodwill at least annually for impairment. Impairment testing is performed based upon estimates of the fair value of the “reporting unit” to which the goodwill relates. The reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below that operating segment if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business and could be adversely impacted by any efforts made by the Company to limit risk. If it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, the Company must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. Such write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. During 2008, the Company took an impairment charge of $745, pre-tax, with respect to its Individual Annuity and International reporting units.  If current market conditions persist during 2009, in particular, if the Company’s share price remains below book value per share, or if the Company’s actions to limit risk associated with its products or investments causes a significant change in any one reporting unit’s fair value, the Company may need to reassess goodwill impairment at the end of each quarter as part of an annual or interim impairment test. Subsequent reviews of goodwill could result in additional impairment of goodwill during 2009.  Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. Factors in management’s determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate capital gains from a variety of sources and tax planning strategies. If based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Our valuation allowance of $75, as of December 31, 2008, based on future facts and circumstances may not be sufficient. Charges to increase our valuation allowance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.   28    Table of Contents  It is difficult for us to predict our potential exposure for asbestos and environmental claims, and our ultimate liability may exceed our currently recorded reserves, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  We continue to receive asbestos and environmental claims. Significant uncertainty limits the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related expenses for both environmental and particularly asbestos claims. We believe that the actuarial tools and other techniques we employ to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional kinds of insurance exposure are less precise in estimating reserves for our asbestos and environmental exposures. Traditional actuarial reserving techniques cannot reasonably estimate the ultimate cost of these claims, particularly during periods where theories of law are in flux. Accordingly, the degree of variability of reserve estimates for these exposures is significantly greater than for other more traditional exposures. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their effect on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. Although potential Federal asbestos-related legislation has been considered in the Senate, it is uncertain whether such legislation will be reconsidered or enacted in the future and, if so, what its effect would be on our aggregate asbestos liabilities. Because of the significant uncertainties that limit the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related expenses for both environmental and particularly asbestos claims, the ultimate liabilities may exceed the currently recorded reserves. Any such additional liability cannot be reasonably estimated now but could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  The occurrence of one or more terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve or the threat of terrorism in general may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  The occurrence of one or more terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve could result in substantially higher claims under our insurance policies than we have anticipated. Private sector catastrophe reinsurance is extremely limited and generally unavailable for terrorism losses caused by attacks with nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological weapons. Reinsurance coverage from the federal government under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 is also limited. Accordingly, the effects of a terrorist attack in the geographic areas we serve may result in claims and related losses for which we do not have adequate reinsurance. This would likely cause us to increase our reserves, adversely affect our earnings during the period or periods affected and, if significant enough, could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Further, the continued threat of terrorism and the occurrence of terrorist attacks, as well as heightened security measures and military action in response to these threats and attacks, may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. These consequences could have an adverse effect on the value of the assets in our investment portfolio as well as those in our separate accounts. The continued threat of terrorism also could result in increased reinsurance prices and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. Terrorist attacks also could disrupt our operations centers in the U.S. or abroad. As a result, it is possible that any, or a combination of all, of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  We may incur losses due to our reinsurers’ unwillingness or inability to meet their obligations under reinsurance contracts and the availability, pricing and adequacy of reinsurance may not be sufficient to protect us against losses.  As an insurer, we frequently seek to reduce the losses that may arise from catastrophes or mortality, or other events that can cause unfavorable results of operations, through reinsurance. Under these reinsurance arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of our losses and related expenses; however, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Consequently, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims, and we are subject to our reinsurers’ credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from them. Although we evaluate periodically the financial condition of our reinsurers to minimize our exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies, our reinsurers may become financially unsound or choose to dispute their contractual obligations by the time their financial obligations become due. The inability or unwillingness of any reinsurer to meet its financial obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results. In addition, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we are able to purchase. Historically, reinsurance pricing has changed significantly from time to time. No assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain continuously available to us to the same extent and on the same terms as are currently available. If we were unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient and at prices that we consider acceptable, we would have to either accept an increase in our net liability exposure, reduce the amount of business we write, or develop other alternatives to reinsurance.   29    Table of Contents  Our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially adversely affected by unfavorable loss development.  Our success, in part, depends upon our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses that we insure. We establish loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all unpaid losses and loss expenses incurred with respect to premiums earned on the policies that we write. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, loss reserves are estimates of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost, less what has been paid to date. These estimates are based upon actuarial and statistical projections and on our assessment of currently available data, as well as estimates of claims severity and frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Loss reserve estimates are refined periodically as experience develops and claims are reported and settled. Establishing an appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process. Because of this uncertainty, it is possible that our reserves at any given time will prove inadequate. Furthermore, since estimates of aggregate loss costs for prior accident years are used in pricing our insurance products, we could later determine that our products were not priced adequately to cover actual losses and related loss expenses in order to generate a profit. To the extent we determine that losses and related loss expenses are emerging unfavorably to our initial expectations, we will be required to increase reserves. Increases in reserves would be recognized as an expense during the period or periods in which these determinations are made, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations for the related period or periods. Depending on the severity and timing of any changes in these estimated losses, such determinations could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  We are particularly vulnerable to losses from the incidence and severity of catastrophes, both natural and man-made, the occurrence of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, consolidated results of operations and liquidity.  Our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various unpredictable events, including earthquakes, hurricanes, hailstorms, severe winter weather, fires, tornadoes, explosions and other natural or man-made disasters. We also face substantial exposure to losses resulting from acts of terrorism, disease pandemics and political instability. The geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposure for natural events occurring in a number of areas, including, but not limited to, hurricanes in Florida, the Gulf Coast, the Northeast and the Atlantic coast regions of the United States, and earthquakes in California and the New Madrid region of the United States. We expect that increases in the values and concentrations of insured property in these areas will continue to increase the severity of catastrophic events in the future. In the aftermath of the 2004 and 2005 hurricane season, third-party catastrophe loss models for hurricane loss events were updated to incorporate medium-term forecasts of increased hurricane frequency and severity. In addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may be increasing, or may in the future increase, the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes. Our life insurance operations are also exposed to risk of loss from catastrophes. For example, natural or man-made disasters or a disease pandemic such as could arise from avian flu, could significantly increase our mortality and morbidity experience. Policyholders may be unable to meet their obligations to pay premiums on our insurance policies or make deposits on our investment products. Our liquidity could be constrained by a catastrophe, or multiple catastrophes, which could result in extraordinary losses or a further downgrade of our debt or financial strength ratings from their levels as of February 10, 2009. In addition, in part because accounting rules do not permit insurers to reserve for such catastrophic events until they occur, claims from catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, consolidated results of operations and cash flows.  Competitive activity may adversely affect our market share and financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  The insurance industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include other insurers and, because many of our products include an investment component, securities firms, investment advisers, mutual funds, banks and other financial institutions. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the insurance and financial services industries resulting in increased competition from large, well-capitalized insurance and financial services firms that market products and services similar to ours. The current economic environment has only served to further increase competition. Many of these firms also have been able to increase their distribution systems through mergers or contractual arrangements. These competitors compete with us for producers such as brokers and independent agents and for our employees. Larger competitors may have lower operating costs and an ability to absorb greater risk while maintaining their financial strength ratings, thereby allowing them to price their products more competitively. These highly competitive pressures could result in increased pricing pressures on a number of our products and services, particularly as competitors seek to win market share, and may harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. In addition, as actual or potential future downgrades occur, and if our competitors have not been similarly downgraded, sales of our products could be significantly reduced. Because of the highly competitive nature of the insurance industry, there can be no assurance that we will continue to effectively compete with our industry rivals, or that competitive pressure will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   30    Table of Contents  We may experience unfavorable judicial or legislative developments that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  The Hartford is involved in claims litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, both as a liability insurer defending or providing indemnity for third-party claims brought against insureds and as an insurer defending coverage claims brought against it. The Hartford accounts for such activity through the establishment of unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. The Company is also involved in legal actions that do not arise in the ordinary course of business, some of which assert claims for substantial amounts. Pervasive or dramatic changes in the judicial environment relating to matters such as trends in the size of jury awards, developments in the law relating to the liability of insurers or tort defendants, and rulings concerning the availability or amount of certain types of damages could cause our ultimate liabilities to change from our current expectations. Similarly, changes in federal or state tort litigation laws or other applicable laws could have the same effect. It is not possible to predict changes in the judicial and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of the adequacy of our loss reserves, particularly reserves for longer-tailed lines of business, including asbestos and environmental reserves. Similarly, changes in the judicial and legislative environment can adversely affect our ability to price our products. To the extent that judicial or legislative developments cause our ultimate liabilities to increase from our current expectations, they could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  Potential changes in domestic and foreign regulation may increase our business costs and required capital levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  We are subject to extensive laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. Moreover, they are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities and non-governmental self-regulatory agencies, including foreign regulators, state insurance regulators, state securities administrators, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the New York Stock Exchange, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Office of Thrift Supervision, if our application for the U.S. Treasury Department’s Capital Purchase Program is approved, and state attorneys general, each of which exercises a degree of interpretive latitude. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may not result in compliance with another regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. In addition, there is risk that any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may change over time to our detriment, or that changes in the overall legal environment, even absent any change of interpretation by any particular regulator or enforcement authority, may cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a legal risk management perspective, which could necessitate changes to our practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow and improve the profitability of our business.  State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled, licensed or authorized to conduct business. U.S. state laws grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things:     •   licensing companies and agents to transact business;       •   calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements;       •   mandating certain insurance benefits;       •   regulating certain premium rates;       •   reviewing and approving policy forms;       •   regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements;       •   establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards;       •   fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts;       •   approving changes in control of insurance companies;       •   restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates;       •   establishing assessments and surcharges for guaranty funds, second-injury funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements;       •   requiring insurers to dividend to policy holders any excess profits; and       •   regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.     31    Table of Contents     State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Our international operations are subject to regulation in the relevant jurisdictions in which they operate, which in many ways is similar to the state regulation outlined above, with similar related restrictions. Our asset management businesses are also subject to extensive regulation in the various jurisdictions where they operate. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets or investment advisory clients and generally grant supervisory authorities broad administrative powers. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in the interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Compliance with these laws and regulations is also time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may increase materially our direct and indirect compliance costs and other expenses of doing business, thus having an adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  We may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future distribution channels.  We distribute our annuity, life and certain property and casualty insurance products through a variety of distribution channels, including brokers, independent agents, broker-dealers, banks, wholesalers, affinity partners, our own internal sales force and other third-party organizations. In some areas of our business, we generate a significant portion of our business through individual third-party arrangements. For example, we generated approximately 71% of our personal lines earned premium in 2008 under an exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP that continues until January 1, 2020. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. An interruption in our continuing relationship with certain of these third parties could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.  Our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely affected by the emergence of unexpected and unintended claim and coverage issues.  As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may either extend coverage beyond our underwriting intent or increase the frequency or severity of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued, and this liability may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity at the time it becomes known.  Limits on the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity.  The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. is a holding company with no significant operations. Our principal asset is the stock of our insurance subsidiaries. State insurance regulatory authorities limit the payment of dividends by insurance subsidiaries. These restrictions and other regulatory requirements affect the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to make dividend payments. Limits on the ability of the insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, including our ability to pay dividends to shareholders and service our debt.  As a property and casualty insurer, the premium rates we are able to charge and the profits we are able to obtain are affected by the actions of state insurance departments that regulate our business, the cyclical nature of the business in which we compete and our ability to adequately price the risks we underwrite, which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  Pricing adequacy depends on a number of factors, including the ability to obtain regulatory approval for rate changes, proper evaluation of underwriting risks, the ability to project future loss cost frequency and severity based on historical loss experience adjusted for known trends, our response to rate actions taken by competitors, and expectations about regulatory and legal developments and expense levels. We seek to price our property and casualty insurance policies such that insurance premiums and future net investment income earned on premiums received will provide for an acceptable profit in excess of underwriting expenses and the cost of paying claims.  State insurance departments that regulate us often propose premium rate changes for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and may not allow us to reach targeted levels of profitability. In addition to regulating rates, certain states have enacted laws that require a property and casualty insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities, joint underwriting associations and other residual market plans, or to offer coverage to all consumers and often restrict an insurer’s ability to charge the price it might otherwise charge. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of business at lower than desired rates, participate in the operating losses of residual market plans or pay assessments to fund operating deficits of state-sponsored funds, possibly leading to an unacceptable returns on equity. The laws and regulations of many states also limit an insurer’s ability to withdraw from one or more lines of insurance in the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state’s insurance department. Additionally, certain states require insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the state. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.   32    Table of Contents  Additionally, the property and casualty insurance market is historically cyclical, experiencing periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively low levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. Prices tend to increase for a particular line of business when insurance carriers have incurred significant losses in that line of business in the recent past or when the industry as a whole commits less of its capital to writing exposures in that line of business. Prices tend to decrease when recent loss experience has been favorable or when competition among insurance carriers increases. In a number of product lines and states, we continue to experience premium rate reductions. In these product lines and states, there is a risk that the premium we charge may ultimately prove to be inadequate as reported losses emerge. Even in a period of rate increases, there is a risk that regulatory constraints, price competition or incorrect pricing assumptions could prevent us from achieving targeted returns. Inadequate pricing could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.  If we are unable to maintain the availability of our systems and safeguard the security of our data due to the occurrence of disasters or other unanticipated events, our ability to conduct business may be compromised, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  We use computer systems to store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer and company data and information. Our computer, information technology and telecommunications systems, in turn, interface with and rely upon third-party systems. Our business is highly dependent on our ability, and the ability of certain affiliated third parties, to access these systems to perform necessary business functions, including, without limitation, providing insurance quotes, processing premium payments, making changes to existing policies, filing and paying claims, administering variable annuity products and mutual funds, providing customer support and managing our investment portfolios. Systems failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business and hurt our relationships with our business partners and customers. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or war, our systems may be inaccessible to our employees, customers or business partners for an extended period of time. Even if our employees are able to report to work, they may be unable to perform their duties for an extended period of time if our data or systems are disabled or destroyed. Our systems could also be subject to physical and electronic break-ins, and subject to similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our systems. This may impede or interrupt our business operations and may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition or liquidity.  If we experience difficulties arising from outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct business may be compromised.  We outsource certain technology and business functions to third parties and expect to do so selectively in the future. If we do not effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy, third-party providers do not perform as anticipated, or we experience problems with a transition, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business that may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.  Potential changes in federal or state tax laws, including changes impacting the availability of the separate account dividend received deduction, could adversely affect our business, consolidated operating results or financial condition or liquidity.  Many of the products that the Company sells benefit from one or more forms of tax-favored status under current federal and state income tax regimes. For example, the Company sells life insurance policies that benefit from the deferral or elimination of taxation on earnings accrued under the policy, as well as permanent exclusion of certain death benefits that may be paid to policyholders’ beneficiaries. We also sell annuity contracts that allow the policyholders to defer the recognition of taxable income earned within the contract. Other products that the Company sells also enjoy similar, as well as other, types of tax advantages. The Company also benefits from certain tax benefits, including but not limited to, tax-exempt bond interest, dividends-received deductions, tax credits (such as foreign tax credits), and insurance reserve deductions.  There is risk that federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company or its policyholders. This could occur in the context of deficit reduction or other tax reforms. The effects of any such changes could result in materially lower product sales, lapses of policies currently held, and/or our incurrence of materially higher corporate taxes.  We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims.  We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we use a broad range of measures to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which represents a diversion of resources that may be significant in amount and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce the protection of our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete.  We also may be subject to costly litigation in the event that another party alleges our operations or activities infringe upon another party’s intellectual property rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that could be infringed by our products, methods, processes or services. Any party that holds such a patent could make a claim of infringement against us. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark, trade secret or license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed a third-party patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial liability, and in some circumstances could be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses, or alternatively could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   33    Table of Contents     Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS