Item 1A. Risk Factors. These important risks and uncertainties include:     •   uncertainties related to the Company’s current operating environment, which reflects constrained capital and credit markets and uncertainty about the timing and strength of an economic recovery, and whether management’s efforts to identify and address these risks will be timely and effective;       •   risks associated with our continued execution of steps to realign our business and reposition our investment portfolio, including the potential need to take other actions;       •   market risks associated with our business, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, and implied volatility levels, as well as uncertainty in key sectors such as the global real estate market, that continued to pressure our results in 2010;       •   volatility in our earnings resulting from our adjustment of our risk management program to emphasize protection of statutory surplus;       •   the impact on our statutory capital of various factors, including many that are outside the Company’s control, which can in turn affect our credit and financial strength ratings, cost of capital, regulatory compliance and other aspects of our business and results;       •   risks to our business, financial position, prospects and results associated with negative rating actions or downgrades in the Company’s financial strength and credit ratings or negative rating actions or downgrades relating to our investments;       •   the potential for differing interpretations of the methodologies, estimations and assumptions that underlie the valuation of the Company’s financial instruments that could result in changes to investment valuations;       •   the subjective determinations that underlie the Company’s evaluation of other-than-temporary impairments on available-for-sale securities;       •   losses due to nonperformance or defaults by others;       •   the potential for further acceleration of deferred policy acquisition cost amortization;       •   the potential for further impairments of our goodwill or the potential for changes in valuation allowances against deferred tax assets;       •   the possible occurrence of terrorist attacks and the Company’s ability to contain its exposure, including the effect of the absence or insufficiency of applicable terrorism legislation on coverage;       •   the difficulty in predicting the Company’s potential exposure for asbestos and environmental claims;       •   the possibility of a pandemic, earthquake, or other natural or man-made disaster that may adversely affect our businesses and cost and availability of reinsurance;       •   weather and other natural physical events, including the severity and frequency of storms, hail, winter storms, hurricanes and tropical storms, as well as climate change and its potential impact on weather patterns;       •   the response of reinsurance companies under reinsurance contracts and the availability, pricing and adequacy of reinsurance to protect the Company against losses;       •   the possibility of unfavorable loss development;       •   actions by our competitors, many of which are larger or have greater financial resources than we do;     3    Table of Contents     •   the restrictions, oversight, costs and other consequences of being a savings and loan holding company, including from the supervision, regulation and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision (the “OTS”), and in the future, as a result of the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), The Federal Reserve as the Company’s regulator and the Office of the Controller of the Currency as regulator of Federal Trust Bank;       •   the cost and other effects of increased regulation as a result of the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, which will, among other effects, vest a newly created Financial Services Oversight Council with the power to designate “systemically important” institutions, require central clearing of, and/or impose new margin and capital requirements on, derivatives transactions, and may affect our ability as a savings and loan holding company to manage our general account by limiting or eliminating investments in certain private equity and hedge funds;       •   the potential effect of domestic and foreign regulatory developments, including those that could adversely impact the demand for the Company’s products, operating costs and required capital levels, including changes to statutory reserves and/or risk-based capital requirements related to secondary guarantees under universal life and variable annuity products;       •   the Company’s ability to distribute its products through distribution channels, both current and future;       •   the uncertain effects of emerging claim and coverage issues;       •   the ability of the Company to declare and pay dividends is subject to limitations;       •   the Company’s ability to effectively price its property and casualty policies, including its ability to obtain regulatory consents to pricing actions or to non-renewal or withdrawal of certain product lines;       •   the Company’s ability to maintain the availability of its systems and safeguard the security of its data in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated events;       •   the risk that our framework for managing business risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us that could adversely affect our business;       •   the potential for difficulties arising from outsourcing relationships;       •   the impact of potential changes in federal or state tax laws, including changes affecting the availability of the separate account dividend received deduction;       •   the impact of potential changes in accounting principles and related financial reporting requirements;       •   the Company’s ability to protect its intellectual property and defend against claims of infringement;       •   unfavorable judicial or legislative developments; and       •   other factors described in such forward-looking statements.    Any forward-looking statement made by the Company in this document speaks only as of the date of the filing of this Form 10-K. Factors or events that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Company to predict all of them. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.   4    Table of Contents     PART I     Item 1. BUSINESS (Dollar amounts in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise stated)  General  The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “The Hartford” or the “Company”) is an insurance and financial services company. The Hartford, headquartered in Connecticut, is among the largest providers of investment products and life, property, and casualty insurance to both individual and business customers in the United States of America. Also, The Hartford continues to administer business previously sold in Japan and the United Kingdom. Hartford Fire Insurance Company, founded in 1810, is the oldest of The Hartford’s subsidiaries. At December 31, 2010, total assets and total stockholders’ equity of The Hartford were $318.3 billion and $20.3 billion, respectively.  Organization  The Hartford strives to maintain and enhance its position as a market leader within the financial services industry. The Company sells diverse and innovative products through multiple distribution channels to consumers and businesses. The Company is continuously seeking to develop and expand its distribution channels, achieving cost efficiencies through economies of scale and improved technology, and capitalizes on its brand name and The Hartford Stag Logo, one of the most recognized symbols in the financial services industry. In 2009, the Company announced it would focus on its U.S. businesses and suspended sales in Japan and the United Kingdom. In 2010, the Company announced a customer-oriented strategy and established three divisions Commercial Markets, Consumer Markets, and Wealth Management. In 2010, the Company announced the sale of two businesses that are not core to its focus and strategy: its Canadian mutual fund business, Hartford Investments Canada Corporation, and Specialty Risk Services, LLC, a third-party administrator for claims administration (scheduled to close in 2011). Going forward, the Company intends to continue evaluating its businesses and may make additional divestitures of businesses and assets that are outside its focus or not necessary to the implementation of its strategy.  As a holding company that is separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. has no significant business operations of its own. Therefore, it relies on the dividends from its insurance companies and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash flow to meet its obligations. Additional information regarding the cash flow and liquidity needs of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. may be found in the Capital Resources and Liquidity section of Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”).  The Company maintains a retail mutual fund operation, whereby the Company, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, provides investment management and administrative services to The Hartford Mutual Funds, Inc. and The Hartford Mutual Funds II, Inc. (collectively, “mutual funds”), consisting of 52 mutual funds, as of December 31, 2010. The Company charges fees to these mutual funds, which are recorded as revenue by the Company. These mutual funds are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The mutual funds are owned by the shareholders of those funds and not by the Company.  Reporting Segments  The Hartford made changes to its reporting segments in 2010 to reflect the manner in which the Company is currently organized for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing performance. Accordingly, segment data for prior reporting periods has been adjusted to reflect the new segment reporting. As a result, the Company created three customer-oriented divisions, Commercial Markets, Consumer Markets and Wealth Management, conducting business principally in seven reporting segments. The Hartford includes in Corporate and Other the Company’s debt financing and related interest expense, as well as other capital raising activities; banking operations; certain fee income and commission expenses associated with sales of non-proprietary products by broker-dealer subsidiaries; and certain purchase accounting adjustments and other charges not allocated to the reporting segments. Also included in Corporate and Other is the Company’s management of certain property and casualty operations that have discontinued writing new business and substantially all of the Company’s asbestos and environmental exposures, collectively referred to as Other Operations.  The following discussion describes the principal products and services, marketing and distribution, and competition of each of the three divisions of The Hartford. For further discussion on changes to reporting segments in 2010, as well as financial disclosures on revenues by product, net income (loss), and assets for each reporting segment, see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   5    Table of Contents  Commercial Markets  The Commercial Markets division is organized into two reporting segments; Property & Casualty Commercial and Group Benefits.  Principal Products and Services  Property & Casualty Commercial provides workers’ compensation, property, automobile, liability and umbrella coverages under several different products, primarily throughout the U.S, within its standard commercial lines, which consists of The Hartford’s small commercial and middle market lines of business. Additionally, a variety of customized insurance products and risk management services including workers’ compensation, automobile, general liability, professional liability, fidelity, surety and specialty casualty coverages are offered to large companies through the segment’s specialty lines.  Standard commercial lines seeks to offer products with more coverage options and customized pricing based on the policyholder’s individualized risk characteristics. For small businesses, those businesses whose annual payroll is under $5 and whose revenue and property values are less than $15 each, coverages are bundled as part of a single multi-peril package policy marketed under the Spectrum name. Medium-sized businesses, companies whose payroll, revenue and property values exceed the small business definition, are served within middle market. The middle market line of business provides workers’ compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella, marine and livestock coverages. The sale of Spectrum business owners’ package policies and workers’ compensation policies accounts for the majority of the written premium in the standard commercial lines.  Within the specialty lines, a significant portion of the specialty casualty business, including workers’ compensation business, is written through large deductible programs where the insured typically provides collateral to support loss payments made within their deductible. The specialty casualty business also provides retrospectively-rated programs where the premiums are adjustable based on loss experience. Captive and Specialty Programs provide insurance products and services primarily to captive insurance companies, pools and self-insurance groups. In addition, specialty lines has provided third-party administrator services for claims administration, integrated benefits and loss control through Specialty Risk Services, LLC (“SRS”), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The Company signed a definitive agreement on December 17, 2010 to sell SRS.  Group Benefits provides group life, accident and disability coverage, group retiree health and voluntary benefits to individual members of employer groups, associations, affinity groups and financial institutions. Group Benefits offers disability underwriting, administration, claims processing and reinsurance to other insurers and self-funded employer plans. Policies sold in this segment are generally term insurance, allowing Group Benefits to adjust the rates or terms of its policies in order to minimize the adverse effect of market trends, declining interest rates, and other factors. Policies are typically sold with one, two or three-year rate guarantees depending upon the product.  In addition to the products and services traditionally offered within each of its lines of business, in 2010 Commercial Markets launched The Hartford Productivity Advantage (“THPA”), a single-company solution for leave management, integrating the insurer’s short- and long-term group disability and workers’ compensation insurance with its leave management administration services.  Marketing and Distribution  Standard commercial lines provide insurance products and services through the Company’s home office located in Hartford, Connecticut, and multiple domestic regional office locations and insurance centers. The products are marketed nationwide utilizing brokers and independent agents. The current pace of consolidation within the independent agent and broker distribution channel will likely continue such that, in the future a larger proportion of written premium will likely be concentrated among fewer agents and brokers. Additionally the Company offers insurance products to customers of the payroll service providers through its relationships with major national payroll companies.  Specialty lines also provide insurance products and services through its home office located in Hartford, Connecticut and multiple domestic office locations. Specialty lines markets its products nationwide utilizing a variety of distribution networks including independent retail agents, brokers and wholesalers.  The Group Benefits distribution network includes an experienced group of Company employees, managed through a regional sales office system, to distribute its group insurance products and services through a variety of distribution outlets including brokers, consultants, third-party administrators and trade associations.  During 2010 the Company launched a nationwide joint sales management effort across standard commercial lines, specialty lines and Group Benefits, facilitating the marketing of both integrated and traditional products and services across commercial markets.   6    Table of Contents  Competition  In the small commercial marketplace, The Hartford competes against a number of large national carriers, as well as regional competitors in certain territories. Competitors include other stock companies, mutual companies and other underwriting organizations. The small commercial market has become increasingly competitive as favorable loss costs in the past few years have led carriers to differentiate themselves through product expansion, price reduction, enhanced service and cutting-edge technology. Larger carriers such as The Hartford have improved their pricing sophistication and ease of doing business with agents through the use of predictive modeling tools and automation which speeds up the process of evaluating a risk and quoting new business.  Written premium growth rates in the small commercial market have slowed and underwriting margins have deteriorated due to earned pricing decreases, economy-related exposure reductions and increases in loss cost severity. A number of companies have sought to grow their business by increasing their underwriting appetite, appointing new agents and expanding business with existing agents. Also, carriers serving middle market-sized accounts are more aggressively competing for small commercial accounts as small commercial business has generally been less price-sensitive.  Middle market business is characterized as “high touch” and involves case-by-case underwriting and pricing decisions. Compared to small commercial lines, the pricing of middle market accounts is prone to more significant variation or cyclicality over time, with more sensitivity to legislative and macro-economic forces. The economic downturn which began in 2008 has driven a reduction in average premium size as shrinking company payrolls, smaller auto fleets, and fewer business locations depress insurance exposures. Additionally, various state legislative reforms in recent years designed to control workers compensation indemnity costs have led to rate reductions in many states. These factors coupled with soft market conditions, characterized by highly competitive pricing on new business, have resulted in more new business opportunities in the marketplace as customers shop their policies for a better price. In the face of this competitive environment, The Hartford continues to maintain a disciplined underwriting approach. To gain a competitive advantage in this environment, carriers are improving automation with agents and brokers, increasing pricing sophistication, and enhancing their product offerings. These enhancements include industry specialization, with The Hartford and other national carriers tailoring products and services to specific industry verticals such as technology, health care and renewable energy.  Specialty lines is comprised of a diverse group of businesses that operate independently within their specific industries. These businesses, while somewhat interrelated, have different business models and operating cycles. Specialty lines competes on an account- by-account basis due to the complex nature of each transaction. Competition in this market includes other stock companies, mutual companies, alternative risk sharing groups and other underwriting organizations. The relatively large size and underwriting capacity of The Hartford provides opportunities not available to smaller companies. Disciplined underwriting and targeted returns are the objectives of specialty lines since premium writings may fluctuate based on the segment’s view of perceived market opportunity.  For specialty casualty businesses, written pricing competition continues to be significant, particularly for the larger individual accounts. Carriers are protecting their in-force casualty business by initiating the renewal process well in advance of the policy renewal date, effectively preventing other carriers from quoting on the business and resulting in fewer new business opportunities within the marketplace. Within the national account business, as the market continues to soften, more insureds may opt for guaranteed cost policies in lieu of loss-sensitive products.  Carriers writing professional liability business are increasingly focused on profitable private, middle market companies. This trend has continued as the downturn in the economy has led to a significant drop in the number of initial public offerings, and volatility for all public companies. Also, carriers’ new business opportunities in the marketplace for directors & officers and errors & omissions insurance have been significantly influenced by customer perceptions of financial strength, as investment portfolio losses have had a negative affect on the financial strength ratings of some insurers.  In the surety business, favorable underwriting results over the past couple of years has led to increased competition for market share, setting the stage for potential written price declines and less favorable terms and conditions. Driven by the upheaval in the credit markets, new private construction activity has declined dramatically, resulting in lower demand for contract surety business.  Group Benefits competes with numerous other insurance companies and other financial intermediaries marketing insurance products. This line of business focuses on both its risk management expertise and economies of scale to derive a competitive advantage. Competitive factors affecting Group Benefits include the variety and quality of products and services offered, the price quoted for coverage and services, the Company’s relationships with its third-party distributors, and the quality of customer service. In addition, active price competition continues in the marketplace resulting in longer rate guarantee periods being offered to customers. Top tier carriers in the marketplace also offer on-line and self service capabilities to agents and consumers. The relatively large size and underwriting capacity of the Group Benefits business provides opportunities not available to smaller companies.  In the commercial marketplace, generally soft market conditions and a weak economy has prompted carriers to offer differentiated products and services as a means of gaining a competitive advantage. In addition to the initiatives specific to each of The Hartford’s Commercial Markets’ lines of business noted above, the Company is leveraging its diverse product, service and distribution capabilities to deliver differentiated value in the market, while simultaneously increasing its ability to access to its own diverse customer base.   7    Table of Contents  Consumer Markets  The Consumer Markets division constitutes the reporting segment.  Principal Products and Services  Consumer Markets provides standard automobile, homeowners and home-based business coverages to individuals across the United States, including a special program designed exclusively for members of AARP (“AARP Program”). The Hartford’s auto and homeowners products provide coverage options and customized pricing tailored to a customer’s individual risk Although The Hartford has individual customer relationships with AARP Program policyholders, as a group these customers represent a significant portion of the total Consumer Markets business. Business sold direct to AARP members amounted to earned premiums of $2.9 billion, $2.8 billion and $2.8 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Consumer Markets also operates a member contact center for health insurance products offered through the AARP Health program, which is in place through 2018.  Marketing and Distribution  Consumer Markets reaches diverse customers through multiple distribution channels including direct sales to the consumer, brokers and independent agents. In direct sales to the consumer, the Company markets its products through a mix of media, including direct marketing, the internet and advertising in publications. Most of Consumer Markets’ direct sales to the consumer are associated with its exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP to market automobile, homeowners and home-based business insurance products to AARP’s nearly 37 million members. The Hartford’s exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP continues until January 1, 2020 for automobile, homeowners and home-based business. This agreement provides Consumer Markets with an important competitive advantage given the number of “baby boomers” over age 50 many of whom become AARP members during this period.  The agency channel provides customized products and services to customers through a network of independent agents in the standard personal lines market. These independent agents are not employees of The Hartford. An important strategic objective of the Company is to develop common products and processes for all of its personal lines business regardless of the distribution channel. In 2010, the Company continued the rollout of its new Open Road Advantage Product and, as of December 31, 2010, this product was sold in 33 states across the Company’s distribution channels, including directly to AARP members, through independent agents to both AARP members and non-members and directly to non-members. In 2009, Consumer Markets piloted mass marketing direct to the consumer without the benefit of an affinity partnership. In 2010, Consumer Markets changed its strategy away from mass marketing to targeting specific customer groups, including individuals in the over 40 age group, and writing business through affinities other than AARP. The Company entered into an affinity agreement with American Kennel Club effective January 1, 2011 and expects to enter into additional affinity arrangements in 2011.  Competition  The personal lines automobile and homeowners businesses are highly competitive. Personal lines insurance is written by insurance companies of varying sizes that compete on the basis of price, product, service (including claims handling), stability of the insurer and brand recognition. Companies with recognized brands, direct sales capability and economies of scale will have a competitive advantage. In recent years, a number of carriers have increased their advertising in an effort to gain new business and retain profitable business. This has been particularly true of carriers that sell directly to the consumer. Industry sales of personal lines insurance direct to the consumer have been growing faster than sales through agents, particularly for auto insurance.  Carriers that distribute products mainly through agents have been competing by offering agents increased commissions and additional incentives to attract new business. To distinguish themselves in the marketplace, top tier carriers are offering on-line and self service capabilities to agents and consumers. More agents have been using “comparative rater” tools that allow the agent to compare premium quotes among several insurance companies. The use of comparative rater tools has further increased price competition. Carriers with more efficient cost structures will have an advantage in competing for new business through price. The use of data mining and predictive modeling is used by more and more carriers to target the most profitable business and, carriers have further segmented their pricing plans to expand market share in what they believe to be the most profitable segments. Some companies, including The Hartford, have written a greater percentage of their new business in preferred market segments which tend to have better loss experience but also lower average premiums.  Wealth Management  The Wealth Management division consists of the following reporting segments: Global Annuity, Life Insurance, Retirement Plans and Mutual Funds. Wealth Management provides investment products for over 7 million customers and life insurance for approximately 716,000 customers.  As part of the Company’s strategic decision to focus on its U.S. businesses, the Company suspended all new sales in its Japan and European operations in the second quarter of 2009 and divested its Brazil joint venture, Canadian mutual fund business and its offshore insurance business in 2010.   8    Table of Contents  Principal Products and Services  Global Annuity offers individual variable, fixed market value adjusted (“fixed MVA”) and single premium immediate annuities in the U.S., a range of products to institutional investors, including but not limited to, stable value contracts and institutional annuities, and administers investments, retirement savings and other insurance and savings products to individuals and groups outside the U.S., primarily in Japan and Europe.  Life Insurance sells a variety of life insurance products, including variable universal life, universal life, and term life, as well as variable private placement life insurance (“PPLI”) owned by corporations and high net worth individuals.  Retirement Plans provides products and services to corporations, municipalities, and not-for-profit organizations pursuant to Sections 401(k), 457 and 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), respectively.  Mutual Funds offers retail mutual funds, investment-only mutual funds and college savings plans under Section 529 of the Code (collectively referred to as non-proprietary) and proprietary mutual funds.  Marketing and Distribution  Global Annuity’s distribution network includes national and regional broker-dealer organizations, banks and other financial institutions and independent financial advisors. The Company periodically negotiates provisions and terms of its relationships with unaffiliated parties. The Company’s primary wholesaler of its individual annuities is Hartford Life Distributors, LLC, and its affiliate, PLANCO, LLC (collectively “HLD”) which are indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of Hartford Life, Inc. HLD provides sales support to registered representatives, financial planners and broker-dealers at brokerage firms and banks across the United States.  Life Insurance’s distribution network includes national and regional broker-dealer organizations, banks, independent agents, independent life and property-casualty agents, and Woodbury Financial Services, an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary retail broker-dealer. PPLI’s distribution network includes: specialized brokers with expertise in the large case market; financial advisors that work with individual investors; investment banking and wealth management specialists; benefits consulting firms; investment consulting firms employed by retirement plan sponsors; and The Hartford employees.  Retirement Plans distribution network includes Company employees with extensive retirement experience selling its products and services through national and regional broker-dealer firms, banks and other financial institutions.  Mutual Fund sales professionals are segmented into two teams; a retail team and an institutional team. The retail team distributes The Hartford’s open-end funds and 529 College Savings funds to national and regional broker-dealer organizations, banks and other financial institutions, independent financial advisors and registered investment advisors. The institutional team distributes The Hartford’s funds to professional buyers, such as broker-dealer wrap, consultants, record keepers, and bank trust groups.  Competition  Global Annuity competes with other life insurance companies, as well as certain banks, securities brokerage firms, independent financial advisors, asset managers, and other financial intermediaries marketing annuities, mutual funds and other retirement-oriented products. Product sales are affected by competitive factors such as investment performance ratings, product design, visibility in the marketplace, financial strength ratings, distribution capabilities, levels of charges and credited rates, reputation and customer service. Global Annuity’s U.S. annuity deposits continue to decline due to competitive activity and the Company’s product and risk decisions. Many competitors have responded to the equity market volatility by increasing the price of their living benefit products and changing the level of the guarantee offered. Management believes that the most significant industry de-risking changes have occurred. In 2010, the Company transitioned to a new variable annuity product designed to meet customers future income needs while abiding by the risk tolerances of the Company.  Life Insurance competes with other life insurance companies in the United States, as well as other financial intermediaries marketing insurance products. Product sales are affected primarily by the availability and price of reinsurance, volatility in the equity markets, breadth and quality of life insurance products being offered, pricing, relationships with third-party distributors, effectiveness of wholesaling support, and the quality of underwriting and customer service. The individual life industry continues to see a distribution shift away from the traditional life insurance sales agents to the consultative financial advisor as the place people go to buy their life insurance. Life Insurance’s regional sales office system is a differentiator in the market and allows it to compete effectively across multiple distribution outlets.  Retirement Plans compete with other insurance carriers, large investment brokerage companies and large mutual fund companies. The 401(k), 457, and 403(b) products offer mutual funds wrapped in variable annuities, variable funding agreements, or mutual fund retirement products. Plan sponsors seek a diversity of available funds and favorable fund performance. Consolidation among industry providers has continued as competitors increase scale advantages.  Mutual Funds compete with other mutual fund companies along with investment brokerage companies and differentiate themselves through product solutions, performance, and service. In this non-proprietary broker sold market, the Company and its competitors compete aggressively for net sales.   9    Table of Contents  Reserves  The Hartford establishes and carries as liabilities reserves for its insurance products to estimate for the following:     •   a liability for unpaid losses, including those that have been incurred but not yet reported, as well as estimates of all expenses associated with processing and settling these claims;       •   a liability equal to the balance that accrues to the benefit of the Wealth Management insurance policyholder as of the consolidated financial statement date, otherwise known as the account value;       •   a liability for future policy benefits, representing the present value of future benefits to be paid to or on behalf of policyholders less the present value of future net premiums;       •   fair value reserves for living benefits embedded derivative guarantees; and       •   death and living benefit reserves which are computed based on a percentage of revenues less actual claim costs.    Further discussion of The Hartford’s property and casualty insurance product reserves, including asbestos and environmental claims reserves, may be found in Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Critical Accounting Estimates — Property and Casualty Insurance Product Reserves, Net of Reinsurance. Additional discussion may be found in the Company’s accounting policies for insurance product reserves within Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  Reinsurance  The Hartford cedes insurance risk to reinsurance companies for both its property and casualty and life insurance products. Ceded reinsurance does not relieve The Hartford of its primary liability and, as such, failure of reinsurers to honor their obligations could result in losses to The Hartford. For further discussion, see Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  For property and casualty insurance products, reinsurance arrangements are intended to provide greater diversification of business and limit The Hartford’s maximum net loss arising from large risks or catastrophes. A major portion of The Hartford’s property and casualty insurance product reinsurance is effected under general reinsurance contracts known as treaties, or, in some instances, is negotiated on an individual risk basis, known as facultative reinsurance. The Hartford also has in-force excess of loss contracts with reinsurers that protect it against a specified part or all of a layer of losses over stipulated amounts. For further discussion on property and casualty insurance product reinsurance, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Insurance Risk — Reinsurance.  For life insurance products, The Hartford is involved in both the cession and assumption of insurance with other insurance and reinsurance companies. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company’s policy for the largest amount of life insurance retained on any one life by any one of its operations was $10. The Company also assumes reinsurance from other insurers. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company did not make any significant changes in the terms under which reinsurance is ceded to other insurers. In addition, the Company has reinsured a portion of the risk associated with U.S. minimum death benefit guarantees, Japan’s guaranteed minimum death, as well as U.S. guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits offered in connection with its variable annuity contracts. For further discussion on reinsurance, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Market Risk — Variable Product Equity Risk.  Investment Operations  The majority of the Company’s investment portfolios are managed by Hartford Investment Management Company (“HIMCO”). HIMCO manages the portfolios to maximize economic value, while attempting to generate the income necessary to support the Company’s various product obligations, within internally established objectives, guidelines and risk tolerances. The portfolio objectives and guidelines are developed based upon the asset/liability profile, including duration, convexity and other characteristics within specified risk tolerances. The risk tolerances considered include, for example, asset and credit issuer allocation limits, maximum portfolio below investment grade holdings and foreign currency exposure. The Company attempts to minimize adverse impacts to the portfolio and the Company’s results of operations from changes in economic conditions through asset allocation limits, asset/liability duration matching and through the use of derivatives. For further discussion of HIMCO’s portfolio management approach, see the Investment Credit Risk Section of the MD&A.  In addition to managing the general account assets of the Company, HIMCO is also a SEC registered investment adviser for third party institutional clients, a sub-advisor for certain mutual funds and serves as the sponsor and collateral manager for capital markets transactions. HIMCO specializes in investment management that incorporates proprietary research and active management within a disciplined risk framework that seeks to provide value added returns versus peers and benchmarks. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the fair value of HIMCO’s total assets under management was approximately $159.7 billion and $144.0 billion, respectively, of which $8.7 billion and $8.1 billion, respectively, were held in HIMCO managed third party accounts.   10    Table of Contents  Risk Management  The Company has an independent enterprise risk management function (“ERM”) whose responsibility it is to provide a comprehensive, in depth, and transparent view of the Company’s risk on an aggregated basis and to ensure the Company’s risks remain within tolerance. ERM is led by the Chief Risk Officer who reports to the Chief Executive Officer. ERM is staffed with risk professionals focused on insurance risk, investment risk, market risk, and operational risk. The mission of ERM is to support the Company in achieving its strategic priorities within an agreed upon risk profile by providing a comprehensive view of the risks facing the Company, including risk concentrations and correlations; helping management define the Company’s risk tolerances through the evaluation of the risk return profile of the business relative to the Company’s strategic intent and financial underpinnings; and monitoring and communicating the Company’s risk exposures relative to set tolerances and recommending/implementing appropriate mitigation where applicable.  The Company maintains an internal Enterprise Risk and Capital Committee (“ERCC”), which includes the Company’s Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Chief Risk Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Investment Officer, the Presidents and Chief Operating Officers of Commercial Markets, Consumer Markets, and Wealth Management and the Company’s General Counsel. The ERCC, which is chaired by the CEO, meets regularly to manage the Company’s strategic risk profile and risk management activities across the organization; approve financial and investment strategies along with the methodology to attribute capital among business lines; determine the Company’s capital structure; and establish the Company’s risk management framework, limits, and standards.  The Board as a whole has ultimate responsibility for risk oversight. It exercises its oversight function through its standing committees, each of which has primary risk oversight responsibility with respect to all matters within the scope of its duties as contemplated by its charter. The Finance, Investment and Risk Management Committee (“FIRMCo”), which consists of all members of the Board, has responsibility for oversight of all risks that do not fall within the oversight responsibility of any other standing committee. Together, these committees oversee and assess general risk management activities, investment activities and financial management of the Company and its subsidiaries. They review the Company’s risk management framework and enterprise policies related to governance and provide a forum for discussion between management and the Board on risk and risk-related matters.  Regulation  Insurance companies are subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision throughout the United States. The extent of such regulation varies, but generally has its source in statutes which delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to state insurance departments. Such powers relate to, among other things, the standards of solvency that must be met and maintained; the licensing of insurers and their agents; the nature of and limitations on investments; establishing premium rates; claim handling and trade practices; restrictions on the size of risks which may be insured under a single policy; deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; approval of policy forms; periodic examinations of the affairs of companies; annual and other reports required to be filed on the financial condition of companies or for other purposes; fixing maximum interest rates on life insurance policy loans and minimum rates for accumulation of surrender values; and the adequacy of reserves and other necessary provisions for unearned premiums, unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and other liabilities, both reported and unreported.  Most states have enacted legislation that regulates insurance holding company systems such as The Hartford. This legislation provides that each insurance company in the system is required to register with the insurance department of its state of domicile and furnish information concerning the operations of companies within the holding company system that may materially affect the operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system. All transactions within a holding company system affecting insurers must be fair and equitable. Notice to the insurance departments is required prior to the consummation of transactions affecting the ownership or control of an insurer and of certain material transactions between an insurer and any entity in its holding company system. In addition, certain of such transactions cannot be consummated without the applicable insurance department’s prior approval. In the jurisdictions in which the Company’s insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled, the acquisition of more than 10% of The Hartford’s outstanding common stock would require the acquiring party to make various regulatory filings.  Certain of the Company’s life insurance subsidiaries sell variable life insurance, variable annuity, and some fixed guaranteed products that are “securities” registered with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Some of the products have separate accounts that are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and/or are regulated by state law. Separate account investment products are also subject to state insurance regulation. Moreover, each separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, some of which invest in underlying mutual funds which are themselves registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Underlying Funds”). The Company offers these Underlying Funds and retail mutual funds that are registered with and regulated by the SEC.  In addition, other subsidiaries of the Company are involved in the offering, selling and distribution of the Company’s variable insurance products, Underlying Funds and retail mutual funds as broker dealers and are subject to regulation promulgated and enforced by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), the SEC and/or in, some instances, state securities administrators. Other entities operate as investment advisers registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and are registered as investment advisers under certain state laws, as applicable. One subsidiary is an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Because federal and state laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in securities markets, they generally grant regulators broad rulemaking and enforcement authority. Some of these regulations include among other things regulations impacting sales methods, trading practices, suitability of investments, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds, corporate governance, capital, record keeping, and reporting requirements.   11    Table of Contents  The extent of insurance regulation on business outside the United States varies significantly among the countries in which The Hartford operates. Some countries have minimal regulatory requirements, while others regulate insurers extensively. Foreign insurers in certain countries are faced with greater restrictions than domestic competitors domiciled in that particular jurisdiction. The Hartford’s international operations are comprised of insurers licensed in their respective countries.  In 2009, the Company acquired Federal Trust Corporation, a thrift holding company, and as a result is subject to regulations by the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”). Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the OTS will be dissolved. The Federal Reserve will assume regulatory authority over our holding company, and our thrift subsidiary, Federal Trust Bank, will be regulated by the Office of Controller of the Currency (“OCC”).  Failure to comply with federal and state laws and regulations may result in censure, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension, termination or limitation of the activities of our operations and/or our employees. We cannot predict the impact of these actions on our businesses, results of operations or financial condition.  Intellectual Property  We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property.  We have a worldwide trademark portfolio that we consider important in the marketing of our products and services, including, among others, the trademarks of The Hartford name, the Stag Logo and the combination of these two marks. The duration of trademark registrations varies from country to country and may be renewed indefinitely subject to country-specific use and registration requirements. We regard our trademarks as extremely valuable assets in marketing our products and services and vigorously seek to protect them against infringement.  Employees  The Hartford had approximately 26,800 employees as of December 31, 2010.  Available Information  The Hartford makes available, free of charge, on or through its Internet website (http://www.thehartford.com) The Hartford’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after The Hartford electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. These reports may be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition the SEC maintains an internet website (http://sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.   12    Table of Contents     Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  Investing in The Hartford involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in The Hartford, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, any of which could have a significant or material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity of The Hartford. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by The Hartford with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  Our operating environment remains subject to uncertainty about the timing and strength of an economic recovery. The steps we have taken to realign our businesses and strengthen our capital position may not be adequate to mitigate the financial, competitive and other risks associated with our operating environment which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.  Uncertainty about the timing and strength of a recovery in the global economy continued to affect our operating environment in 2010. High unemployment, lower family income, lower business investment and lower consumer spending in most geographic markets we serve have adversely affected the demand for financial and insurance products, as well as their profitability in some cases. Our results, financial condition and statutory capital remain sensitive to equity and credit market performance and effects of foreign currency, and we expect that market conditions will put pressure on returns in our life and property and casualty investment portfolios and that our hedging costs will remain higher than historical levels. Unless all economic conditions continue to improve, we would expect to experience realized and unrealized investment losses, particularly in the commercial real estate sector where market value declines and risk premiums still exist, which reflects the future uncertainty in the real estate market. Negative rating agency actions with respect to our investments could also indirectly adversely affect our statutory capital and risk-based capital (“RBC”) ratios, which could in turn have other negative consequences for our business and results.  The steps we have taken to realign our businesses and strengthen our capital position may not be adequate if economic conditions do not continue to improve in line with our forecasts. These steps include ongoing initiatives, particularly the execution risk relating to the continued repositioning of our investment portfolios and the continuing realignment of our macro hedge programs for our variable annuity business. In addition, we modified our variable annuity product offerings, launching a new variable annuity product in October 2009, and a second variable annuity product launch expected in the second quarter of 2011. However, the future success of these new variable annuity products will be dependent on market acceptance. The level of market acceptance of these new products will directly affect the level of variable annuity sales of the Company in the future. In addition, as the Company and our distribution partners transition to these new products, there will be downward pressure on new deposits, and management expects to continue to be in a net outflow position. If our actions are not adequate, our ability to support the scale of our business and to absorb operating losses and liabilities under our customer contracts could be impaired, which would in turn adversely affect our overall competitiveness and the capital position of the Company.  Even if the measures we have taken (or take in the future) are effective to mitigate the risks associated with our current operating environment, they may have unintended consequences. For example, rebalancing our hedging program may better protect our statutory surplus, but also result in greater earnings volatility under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“U.S. GAAP”). We could be required to consider actions to manage our capital position and liquidity or further reduce our exposure to market and financial risks. We may also be forced to sell assets on unfavorable terms that could cause us to incur charges or lose the potential for market upside on those assets in a market recovery. We could also face other pressures, such as employee recruitment and retention issues and potential loss of distribution for our products. Additionally, if there was concern over the Company’s capital position creating an anticipation of the Company issuing additional common stock or equity linked instruments, trading prices for our common stock could decline.  We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and global real estate market deterioration that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and global real estate market deterioration.  One important exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our wealth management businesses, such as variable annuities, where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the assets under management. Should equity markets decline from current levels, assets under management and related fee income will be reduced. In addition, certain of our products offer guaranteed benefits that increase our potential obligation and statutory capital exposure should equity markets decline. Sustained declines in equity markets may result in the need to devote significant additional capital to support these products. We are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations. Sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns are likely to have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans.   13    Table of Contents  Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. A rise in interest rates, in the absence of other countervailing changes, will increase the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio and, if long-term interest rates rise dramatically within a six-to-twelve month time period, certain of our wealth management businesses may be exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate assets in an unrealized loss position. Although our products have features such as surrender charges, market-value adjustments and put options on certain retirement plans, we are subject to disintermediation risk. An increase in interest rates can also impact our tax planning strategies and in particular our ability to utilize tax benefits to offset certain previously recognized realized capital losses. In a declining rate environment, due to the long-term nature of the liabilities associated with certain of our life businesses, such as structured settlements and guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, sustained declines in long-term interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks, increased hedging costs, spread compression and capital volatility. Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. If issuer credit spreads widen significantly or retain historically wide levels over an extended period of time, additional other-than-temporary impairments and increases in the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio will likely result. In addition, losses have also occurred due to the volatility in credit spreads. When credit spreads widen, we incur losses associated with the credit derivatives where the Company assumes exposure. When credit spreads tighten, we incur losses associated with derivatives where the Company has purchased credit protection. If credit spreads tighten significantly, the Company’s net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturities may be reduced. In addition, a reduction in market liquidity can make it difficult to value certain of our securities when trading becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may be more susceptible to significant period-to-period changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition.  Our statutory surplus is also affected by widening credit spreads as a result of the accounting for the assets and liabilities on our fixed MVA annuities. Statutory separate account assets supporting the fixed MVA annuities are recorded at fair value. In determining the statutory reserve for the fixed MVA annuities we are required to use current crediting rates in the U.S. and Japanese LIBOR in Japan. In many capital market scenarios, current crediting rates in the U.S. are highly correlated with market rates implicit in the fair value of statutory separate account assets. As a result, the change in the statutory reserve from period to period will likely substantially offset the change in the fair value of the statutory separate account assets. However, in periods of volatile credit markets, actual credit spreads on investment assets may increase sharply for certain sub-sectors of the overall credit market, resulting in statutory separate account asset market value losses. As actual credit spreads are not fully reflected in current crediting rates in the U.S. or Japanese LIBOR in Japan, the calculation of statutory reserves will not substantially offset the change in fair value of the statutory separate account assets resulting in reductions in statutory surplus. This has resulted and may continue to result in the need to devote significant additional capital to support the fixed MVA product.  Our primary foreign currency exchange risk is related to certain guaranteed benefits associated with the Japan and U.K. variable annuities. The strengthening of the yen compared with other currencies will substantially increase our exposure to pay yen denominated obligations. In addition our foreign currency exchange risk relates to net income from foreign operations, non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries, and our yen-denominated individual fixed annuity product. In general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will unfavorably affect net income from foreign operations, the value of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and realized gains or losses on the yen denominated annuity products. A strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to foreign currencies will increase our exposure to the U.S. variable annuity guarantee benefits where policyholders have elected to invest in international funds, generating losses and statutory surplus strain.  Our real estate market exposure includes investments in commercial mortgage-backed securities, residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations, mortgage and real estate partnerships, and mortgage loans. Significant deterioration in the real estate market in the past couple of years adversely affected our business and results of operations. Further deterioration in the real estate market, including increases in property vacancy rates, delinquencies and foreclosures, could have a negative impact on property values and sources of refinancing resulting in reduced market liquidity and higher risk premiums. This could result in impairments of real estate backed securities, a reduction in net investment income associated with real estate partnerships, and increases in our valuation allowance for mortgage loans.  Significant declines in equity prices, changes in U.S. interest rates, changes in credit spreads, inflation, the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, or global real estate market deterioration, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.   14    Table of Contents  Our adjustment of our risk management program relating to products we offer with guaranteed benefits to emphasize protection of statutory surplus will likely result in greater U.S. GAAP volatility in our earnings and potentially material charges to net income in periods of rising equity market pricing levels.  Some of the products offered by our Wealth Management businesses, especially variable annuities, offer guaranteed benefits which, in the event of a decline in equity markets, would not only result in lower earnings, but will also increase our exposure to liability for benefit claims. We are also subject to equity market volatility related to these benefits, including the guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (“GMWB”), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit (“GMAB”), guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”) and guaranteed minimum income benefit (“GMIB”) offered with variable annuity products. We use reinsurance structures and have modified benefit features to mitigate the exposure associated with GMDB. We also use reinsurance in combination with a modification of benefit features and derivative instruments to attempt to minimize the claim exposure and to reduce the volatility of net income associated with the GMWB liability. However, due to the severe economic conditions in the fourth quarter of 2008, we adjusted our risk management program to place greater relative emphasis on the protection of statutory surplus. This shift in relative emphasis has resulted in greater U.S. GAAP earnings volatility in 2009 and 2010 and, based upon the types of hedging instruments used, can result in potentially material charges to net income in periods of rising equity market pricing levels, lower interest rates, rises in implied volatility and weakening of the yen against other currencies. While we believe that these actions have improved the efficiency of our risk management related to these benefits, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. We are also subject to the risk that these management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed, which individually or collectively may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  The amount of statutory capital that we have and the amount of statutory capital that we must hold to maintain our financial strength and credit ratings and meet other requirements can vary significantly from time to time and is sensitive to a number of factors outside of our control, including equity market, credit market, interest rate and foreign currency conditions, changes in policyholder behavior and changes in rating agency models.  We conduct the vast majority of our business through licensed insurance company subsidiaries. Accounting standards and statutory capital and reserve requirements for these entities are prescribed by the applicable insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”). Insurance regulators have established regulations that provide minimum capitalization requirements based on RBC formulas for both life and property and casualty companies. The RBC formula for life companies establishes capital requirements relating to insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks, including equity, interest rate and expense recovery risks associated with variable annuities and group annuities that contain death benefits or certain living benefits. The RBC formula for property and casualty companies adjusts statutory surplus levels for certain underwriting, asset, credit and off-balance sheet risks.  In any particular year, statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios may increase or decrease depending on a variety of factors, including the amount of statutory income or losses generated by our insurance subsidiaries (which itself is sensitive to equity market and credit market conditions), the amount of additional capital our insurance subsidiaries must hold to support business growth, changes in equity market levels, the value of certain fixed-income and equity securities in our investment portfolio, the value of certain derivative instruments, changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, the impact of internal reinsurance arrangements, and changes to the NAIC RBC formulas. Most of these factors are outside of the Company’s control. The Company’s financial strength and credit ratings are significantly influenced by the statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios of our insurance company subsidiaries. In addition, rating agencies may implement changes to their internal models that have the effect of increasing the amount of statutory capital we must hold in order to maintain our current ratings. Also, in extreme scenarios of equity market declines and other capital market volatility, the amount of additional statutory reserves that we are required to hold for our variable annuity guarantees increases at a greater than linear rate. This reduces the statutory surplus used in calculating our RBC ratios. When equity markets increase, surplus levels and RBC ratios will generally increase. This may be offset, however, as a result of a number of factors and market conditions, including the level of hedging costs and other risk transfer activities, reserve requirements for death and living benefit guarantees and RBC requirements could also increase, lowering RBC ratios. Due to these factors, projecting statutory capital and the related RBC ratios is complex. If our statutory capital resources are insufficient to maintain a particular rating by one or more rating agencies, we may seek to raise capital through public or private equity or debt financing. If we were not to raise additional capital, either at our discretion or because we were unable to do so, our financial strength and credit ratings might be downgraded by one or more rating agencies.  Downgrades in our financial strength or credit ratings, which may make our products less attractive, could increase our cost of capital and inhibit our ability to refinance our debt, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  Financial strength and credit ratings, including commercial paper ratings, are important in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. In 2009, our financial strength and credit ratings were downgraded by multiple rating agencies. Rating agencies assign ratings based upon several factors. While most of the factors relate to the rated company, some of the factors relate to the views of the rating agency, general economic conditions, and circumstances outside the rated company’s control. In addition, rating agencies may employ different models and formulas to assess the financial strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies have, at their discretion, altered these models. Changes to the models, general economic conditions, or circumstances outside our control could impact a rating agency’s judgment of its rating and the rating it assigns us. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which may adversely affect us.   15    Table of Contents  Our financial strength ratings, which are intended to measure our ability to meet policyholder obligations, are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of our products and, as a result, our competitiveness. A downgrade or a potential downgrade in the rating of our financial strength or of one of our principal insurance subsidiaries could affect our competitive position and reduce future sales of our products.  Our credit ratings also affect our cost of capital. A downgrade or a potential downgrade of our credit ratings could make it more difficult or costly to refinance maturing debt obligations, to support business growth at our insurance subsidiaries and to maintain or improve the financial strength ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries. Downgrades could begin to trigger potentially material collateral calls on certain of our derivative instruments and counterparty rights to terminate derivative relationships, both of which could limit our ability to purchase additional derivative instruments. These events could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  Our valuations of many of our financial instruments include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  The following financial instruments are carried at fair value in the Company’s consolidated financial statements: fixed maturities, equity securities, freestanding and embedded derivatives, and separate account assets. The determination of fair values is made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.  During periods of market disruption, including periods of rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the financial environment. In such cases, securities may require more subjectivity and management judgment in determining their fair values and those fair values may differ materially from the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  Evaluation of available-for-sale securities for other-than-temporary impairment involves subjective determinations and could materially impact our results of operations.  The evaluation of impairments is a quantitative and qualitative process, which is subject to risks and uncertainties and is intended to determine whether a credit and/or non-credit impairment exists and whether an impairment should be recognized in current period earnings or in other comprehensive income. The risks and uncertainties include changes in general economic conditions, the issuer’s financial condition or future recovery prospects, the effects of changes in interest rates or credit spreads and the expected recovery period. For securitized financial assets with contractual cash flows, the Company currently uses its best estimate of cash flows over the life of the security. In addition, estimating future cash flows involves incorporating information received from third-party sources and making internal assumptions and judgments regarding the future performance of the underlying collateral and assessing the probability that an adverse change in future cash flows has occurred. The determination of the amount of other-than-temporary impairments is based upon our quarterly evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available.  Additionally, our management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses their best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Inherent in management’s evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to:       •   the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost or amortized cost;         •   changes in the financial condition, credit rating and near-term prospects of the issuer;         •   whether the issuer is current on contractually obligated interest and principal payments;         •   changes in the financial condition of the security’s underlying collateral;         •   the payment structure of the security;         •   the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector;         •   the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations;         •   the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources;         •   unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities;         •   for mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, commercial and residential property value declines that vary by property type and location and average cumulative collateral loss rates that vary by vintage year;         •   other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies;         •   our intent to sell a debt or an equity security with debt-like characteristics (collectively, “debt security”) or whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery; and         •   our intent and ability to retain an equity security without debt-like characteristics for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value.    Impairment losses in earnings could materially adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition.   16    Table of Contents  Losses due to nonperformance or defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities (which include structured securities such as commercial mortgage backed securities and residential mortgage backed securities or other high yielding bonds) mortgage loans or reinsurance and derivative instrument counterparties, could have a material adverse effect on the value of our investments, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  Issuers or borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud, government intervention or other reasons. Such defaults could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, the underlying assets supporting our structured securities or loans may deteriorate causing these securities or loans to incur losses.  Our investment portfolio includes securities backed by real estate assets the value of which have been adversely impacted by the recent recessionary period and the associated property value declines, resulting in a reduction in expected future cash flow for certain securities. Further property value declines and loss rates that exceed our current estimates, as outlined in Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Investment Credit Risk — Other-Than-Temporary Impairments, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  The Company is not exposed to any credit concentration risk of a single issuer greater than 10% of the Company’s stockholders’ equity other than U.S. government and U.S. government agencies backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. However, if issuers of securities or loans we hold are acquired, merge or otherwise consolidate with other issuers of securities or loans held by the Company, the Company’s credit concentration risk could increase above the 10% threshold, for a period of time, until the Company is able to sell securities to get back in compliance with the established investment credit policies.  If assumptions used in estimating future gross profits differ from actual experience, we may be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC and increase reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  The Company defers acquisition costs associated with the sales of its universal and variable life and variable annuity products. These costs are amortized over the expected life of the contracts. The remaining deferred but not yet amortized cost is referred to as the Deferred Acquisition Cost (“DAC”) asset. We amortize these costs in proportion to the present value of estimated gross profits (“EGPs”). The Company evaluates the EGPs compared to the DAC asset to determine if an impairment exists. The Company also establishes reserves for GMDB and GMIB using components of EGPs. The projection of estimated gross profits or components of estimated gross profits requires the use of certain assumptions, principally related to separate account fund returns in excess of amounts credited to policyholders, surrender and lapse rates, interest margin (including impairments), mortality, benefit utilization, annuitization and hedging costs. Of these factors, we anticipate that changes in investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. However, other factors such as those the Company might employ to reduce risk, such as the cost of hedging or other risk mitigating techniques, could also significantly reduce estimates of future gross profits. Estimating future gross profits is a complex process requiring considerable judgment and the forecasting of events well into the future. If our assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, including lapse rates, benefit utilization, surrenders, and annuitization, hedging costs or costs to employ other risk mitigating techniques prove to be inaccurate or if significant or sustained equity market declines occur, we could be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, and increase reserves for GMDB and GMIB which would result in a charge to net income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  If our businesses do not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We test goodwill at least annually for impairment. Impairment testing is performed based upon estimates of the fair value of the “reporting unit” to which the goodwill relates. The reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below that operating segment if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business and could be adversely impacted by any efforts made by the Company to limit risk. If it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, the Company must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. These write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.  Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. Factors in management’s determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate capital gains, to offset previously recognized capital losses, from a variety of sources and tax planning strategies. If based on available information, it is more likely than not that we are unable to recognize a full tax benefit on realized capital losses, then a valuation allowance will be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Charges to increase our valuation allowance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   17    Table of Contents  The occurrence of one or more terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve or the threat of terrorism in general may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  The occurrence of one or more terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve could result in substantially higher claims under our insurance policies than we have anticipated. Private sector catastrophe reinsurance is extremely limited and generally unavailable for terrorism losses caused by attacks with nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological weapons. Reinsurance coverage from the federal government under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 is also limited. Accordingly, the effects of a terrorist attack in the geographic areas we serve may result in claims and related losses for which we do not have adequate reinsurance. This would likely cause us to increase our reserves, adversely affect our earnings during the period or periods affected and, could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Further, the continued threat of terrorism and the occurrence of terrorist attacks, as well as heightened security measures and military action in response to these threats and attacks, may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. These consequences could have an adverse effect on the value of the assets in our investment portfolio as well as those in our separate accounts. The continued threat of terrorism also could result in increased reinsurance prices and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. Terrorist attacks also could disrupt our operations centers in the U.S. or abroad. As a result, it is possible that any, or a combination of all, of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  It is difficult for us to predict our potential exposure for asbestos and environmental claims, and our ultimate liability may exceed our currently recorded reserves, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  We continue to receive asbestos and environmental claims. Significant uncertainty limits the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related expenses for both environmental and particularly asbestos claims. For some asbestos and environmental claims, we believe that the actuarial tools and other techniques we employ to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional kinds of insurance exposure are less precise in estimating reserves for our asbestos and environmental exposures. Accordingly, the degree of variability of reserve estimates for these exposures is significantly greater than for other more traditional exposures. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their effect on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. Because of the significant uncertainties that limit the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related expenses for both environmental and particularly asbestos claims, the ultimate liabilities may exceed the currently recorded reserves. Any such additional liability cannot be reasonably estimated now but could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  We are particularly vulnerable to losses from catastrophes, both natural and man-made, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  Our insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various unpredictable events, including earthquakes, hurricanes, hailstorms, severe winter weather, fires, tornadoes, explosions, pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters. The geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposure for natural events occurring in a number of areas, including, but not limited to, hurricanes in Florida, the Gulf Coast, the Northeast and the Atlantic coast regions of the United States, and earthquakes in California and the New Madrid region of the United States. We expect that increases in the values and concentrations of insured property in these areas will continue to increase the severity of catastrophic events in the future. Starting in 2004 and 2005, third-party catastrophe loss models for hurricane loss events have incorporated medium-term forecasts of increased hurricane frequency and severity — reflecting the potential influence of multi-decadal climate patterns within the Atlantic. In addition, changing climate conditions across longer time scales, including the potential risk of broader climate change, may be increasing, or may in the future increase, the severity of certain natural catastrophe losses across various geographic regions. In addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may be increasing, or may in the future increase, the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes. Potential examples of the impact of climate change on catastrophe exposure include, but are not limited to the following: an increase in the frequency or severity of wind and thunderstorm and tornado/hailstorm events due to increased convection in the atmosphere, more frequent brush fires in certain geographies due to prolonged periods of drought, higher incidence of deluge flooding, and the potential for an increase in severity of the largest hurricane events due to higher sea surface temperatures. Our operations are also exposed to risk of loss from catastrophes associated with pandemics and other events that could significantly increase our mortality and morbidity exposures. Policyholders may be unable to meet their obligations to pay premiums on our insurance policies or make deposits on our investment products.  Our liquidity could be constrained by a catastrophe, or multiple catastrophes, which could result in extraordinary losses. In addition, in part because accounting rules do not permit insurers to reserve for such catastrophic events until they occur, claims from catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, consolidated results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. To the extent that loss experience unfolds or models improve, we will seek to reflect any increased risk in the design and pricing of our products. However, the Company may be exposed to regulatory or legislative actions that prevent a full accounting of loss expectations in the design or price of our products or result in additional risk-shifting to the insurance industry.   18    Table of Contents  We may incur losses due to our reinsurers’ unwillingness or inability to meet their obligations under reinsurance contracts and the availability, pricing and adequacy of reinsurance may not be sufficient to protect us against losses.  As an insurer, we frequently seek to reduce the losses that may arise from catastrophes, or other events that can cause unfavorable results of operations, through reinsurance. Under these reinsurance arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of our losses and related expenses; however, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Consequently, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims, and we are subject to our reinsurers’ credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from them. Although we regularly evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers to minimize our exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies, our reinsurers may become financially unsound or choose to dispute their contractual obligations by the time their financial obligations become due. The inability or unwillingness of any reinsurer to meet its financial obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results. In addition, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we are able to purchase. Historically, reinsurance pricing has changed significantly from time to time. No assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain continuously available to us to the same extent and on the same terms as are currently available. If we were unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient and at prices that we consider acceptable, we would have to either accept an increase in our net liability exposure, reduce the amount of business we write, or develop other alternatives to reinsurance.  Our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially adversely affected by unfavorable loss development.  Our success, in part, depends upon our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses that we insure. We establish loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all unpaid losses and loss expenses incurred with respect to premiums earned on the policies that we write. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, loss reserves are estimates of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost, less what has been paid to date. These estimates are based upon actuarial and statistical projections and on our assessment of currently available data, as well as estimates of claims severity and frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Loss reserve estimates are refined periodically as experience develops and claims are reported and settled. Establishing an appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process. Because of this uncertainty, it is possible that our reserves at any given time will prove inadequate. Furthermore, since estimates of aggregate loss costs for prior accident years are used in pricing our insurance products, we could later determine that our products were not priced adequately to cover actual losses and related loss expenses in order to generate a profit. To the extent we determine that losses and related loss expenses are emerging unfavorably to our initial expectations, we will be required to increase reserves. Increases in reserves would be recognized as an expense during the period or periods in which these determinations are made, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations for the related period or periods. Depending on the severity and timing of any changes in these estimated losses, such determinations could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  Competitive activity may adversely affect our market share and financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  The insurance industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include other insurers and, because many of our products include an investment component, securities firms, investment advisers, mutual funds, banks and other financial institutions. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the insurance and financial services industries resulting in increased competition from large, well-capitalized insurance and financial services firms that market products and services similar to ours. These competitors compete with us for producers such as brokers and independent agents and for our employees. Larger competitors may have lower operating costs and an ability to absorb greater risk while maintaining their financial strength ratings, thereby allowing them to price their products more competitively. These highly competitive pressures could result in increased pricing pressures on a number of our products and services and may harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. In addition, as actual or potential future downgrades occur, and if our competitors have not been affected by similar ratings actions, sales of our products could be significantly reduced. Because of the highly competitive nature of the insurance industry, there can be no assurance that we will continue to effectively compete with our industry rivals, or that competitive pressure will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   19    Table of Contents  As a savings and loan holding company, we remain subject to certain restrictions, oversight and costs that could materially affect our business, results and prospects.  We are a savings and loan holding company by virtue of our ownership of Federal Trust Bank (“FTB”), a federally chartered, FDIC-insured thrift. As a savings and loan holding company, we are subject to various restrictions, oversight and costs and other potential consequences that could materially affect our business, results and prospects. For example, we are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, including with respect to required capital, cash flow, organizational structure, risk management and earnings at the parent company level, and to the OTS reporting requirements. All of our activities must be financially-related activities as defined by federal law (which includes insurance activities), and the OTS has enforcement authority over us, including the right to pursue administrative orders or penalties and the right to restrict or prohibit activities determined by the OTS to be a serious risk to FTB. We must also be a source of strength to FTB, which could require further capital contributions. We will be subject to similar, potentially stricter, requirements when regulatory authority over us transfers to The Federal Reserve (for our holding company) and the Office of the Controller of the Currency (“OCC”) (for FTB).  We cannot predict the scope or impact of future regulatory initiatives, including, but not limited to, the impact on required levels of regulatory capital or the cost and complexity of our compliance programs.  The impact of regulatory initiatives, including the enactment of The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and liquidity.  Regulatory developments relating to the recent financial crisis may significantly affect our operations and prospects in ways that we cannot predict. U.S. and overseas governmental and regulatory authorities, including the SEC, the OTS, The Federal Reserve, the Office of the Controller of the Currency (“OCC”), the New York Stock Exchange and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority are considering enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or otherwise stabilize the institutions under their supervision. Such measures are likely to lead to stricter regulation of financial institutions generally, and heightened prudential requirements for systemically important companies in particular. Such measures could include taxation of financial transactions and restrictions on employee compensation.  The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was enacted on July 21, 2010, mandating changes to the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act may affect our operations and governance in ways that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act vests a newly created Financial Services Oversight Council with the power to designate “systemically important” institutions, which will be subject to special regulatory supervision and other provisions intended to prevent, or mitigate the impact of, future disruptions in the U.S. financial system. Systemically important institutions are limited to nonbank financial companies that are so important that their potential failure could “pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.” If we are designated as a systemically important institution, we could be subject to higher capital requirements and additional regulatory oversight imposed by The Federal Reserve, as well as to post-event assessments imposed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) to recoup the costs associated with the orderly resolution of other systemically important institutions in the event one or more such institutions fails. Further, the FDIC is authorized to petition a state court to commence an insolvency proceeding to liquidate an insurance company that fails in the event the insurer’s state regulator fails to act. Other provisions will require central clearing of, and/or impose new margin and capital requirements on, derivatives transactions, which we expect will increase the costs of our hedging program.  A number of provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act affect us solely due to our status as a savings & loan holding company. For example, under the Dodd-Frank Act, the OTS will be dissolved. The Federal Reserve will regulate us as a holding company, and the OCC will regulate our thrift subsidiary, Federal Trust Bank. Because of our status as a savings and loan holding company or if we are designated a systemically important institution, the Dodd-Frank Act may also restrict us from sponsoring and investing in private equity and hedge funds, which would limit our discretion in managing our general account. The Dodd-Frank Act will also impose new minimum capital standards on a consolidated basis for holding companies that, like us, control insured depository institutions.  Other provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that may impact us, irrespective of whether or not we are a savings and loan holding company include: the possibility that regulators could break up firms that are considered “too big to fail;” a new “Federal Insurance Office” within Treasury to, among other things, conduct a study of how to improve insurance regulation in the United States; new means for regulators to limit the activities of financial firms; discretionary authority for the SEC to impose a harmonized standard of care for investment advisers and broker-dealers who provide personalized advice about securities to retail customers; additional regulation of compensation in the financial services industry; and enhancements to corporate governance, especially regarding risk management.  The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition.   20    Table of Contents  We may experience unfavorable judicial or legislative developments involving claim litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  The Hartford is involved in claims litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, both as a liability insurer defending or providing indemnity for third-party claims brought against insureds and as an insurer defending coverage claims brought against it. The Hartford accounts for such activity through the establishment of unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. The Company is also involved in legal actions that do not arise in the ordinary course of business, some of which assert claims for substantial amounts. Pervasive or significant changes in the judicial environment relating to matters such as trends in the size of jury awards, developments in the law relating to the liability of insurers or tort defendants, and rulings concerning the availability or amount of certain types of damages could cause our ultimate liabilities to change from our current expectations. Changes in federal or state tort litigation laws or other applicable law could have a similar effect. It is not possible to predict changes in the judicial and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of the adequacy of our loss reserves, particularly reserves for longer-tailed lines of business, including asbestos and environmental reserves, and how those changes might adversely affect our ability to price our products appropriately. Our results, financial condition and liquidity could also be adversely affected if judicial or legislative developments cause our ultimate liabilities to increase from current expectations.  Potential changes in domestic and foreign regulation may increase our business costs and required capital levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  We are subject to extensive U.S. and non-U.S. laws and regulations that are complex, subject to change and often conflicting in their approach or intended outcomes. Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and can affect our strategy, as well as the demand for and profitability of the products we offer. There is also a risk that any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may change over time to our detriment, or expose us to different or additional regulatory risks.  State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled, licensed or authorized to conduct business. U.S. state laws grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things:     •   licensing companies and agents to transact business;       •   calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements;       •   mandating certain insurance benefits;       •   regulating certain premium rates;       •   reviewing and approving policy forms;       •   regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements;       •   establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards;       •   fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts;       •   approving changes in control of insurance companies;       •   restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates;       •   establishing assessments and surcharges for guaranty funds, second-injury funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements;       •   requiring insurers to dividend to policy holders any excess profits; and       •   regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.    State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Our international operations are subject to regulation in the relevant jurisdictions in which they operate, which in many ways is similar to the state regulation outlined above, with similar related restrictions and obligations. Our asset management businesses are also subject to extensive regulation in the various jurisdictions where they operate.  In addition, future regulatory initiatives could be adopted at the federal or state level that could impact the profitability of our businesses. For example, the Obama administration has proposed a financial crisis responsibility tax that would be levied on the largest financial institutions in terms of assets.  These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets or investment advisory clients and generally grant supervisory authorities broad administrative powers. Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly, time consuming and personnel intensive, and may have an adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.   21    Table of Contents  We may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future distribution channels.  We distribute our annuity, life and property and casualty insurance products through a variety of distribution channels, including brokers, independent agents, broker-dealers, banks, wholesalers, affinity partners, our own internal sales force and other third-party organizations. In some areas of our business, we generate a significant portion of our business through or in connection with individual third-party arrangements. For example, we market our Consumer Markets products in part through an exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP that continues through January 2020. Our ability to distribute products through affinity partners may be adversely impacted by membership levels and the pace of membership growth. Moreover, we periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. An interruption in our continuing relationship with certain of these third parties could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.  Our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely affected by the emergence of unexpected and unintended claim and coverage issues.  As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may either extend coverage beyond our underwriting intent or increase the frequency or severity of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued, and this liability may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity at the time it becomes known.  Our ability to declare and pay dividends is subject to limitations.  The payment of future dividends on our capital stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors, which considers, among other factors our operating results, overall financial condition, credit-risk considerations and capital requirements, as well as general business and market conditions.  Moreover, as a holding company that is separate and distinct from our insurance subsidiaries, we have no significant business operations of our own. Therefore, we rely on dividends from our insurance company subsidiaries and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash flow to meet our obligations. These obligations include payments on our debt securities and the payment of dividends on our capital stock. The Connecticut insurance holding company laws limit the payment of dividends by Connecticut-domiciled insurers. In addition, these laws require notice to and approval by the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment by those subsidiaries of any dividend if the dividend and other dividends or distributions made within the preceding 12 months exceeds the greater of:     •   10% of the insurer’s policyholder surplus as of December 31 of the preceding year, and       •   net income, or net gain from operations if the subsidiary is a life insurance company, for the previous calendar year, in each case determined under statutory insurance accounting principles.    In addition, if any dividend of a Connecticut-domiciled insurer exceeds the insurer’s earned surplus, it requires the prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Commissioner.  The insurance holding company laws of the other jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are incorporated, or deemed commercially domiciled, generally contain similar, and in some instances more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. Our property-casualty insurance subsidiaries are permitted to pay up to a maximum of approximately $1.5 billion in dividends to us in 2011 without prior approval from the applicable insurance commissioner. The Company’s life insurance subsidiaries are permitted to pay up to a maximum of approximately $83 in dividends to Hartford Life, Inc. (“HLI”) in 2011 without prior approval from the applicable insurance commissioner. The aggregate of these amounts, net of amounts required by HLI, is the maximum the insurance subsidiaries could pay to HFSG Holding Company in 2011. In 2010, HFSG Holding Company and HLI received no dividends from the life insurance subsidiaries, and HFSG Holding Company received $1.0 billion in dividends from its property-casualty insurance subsidiaries.  Our rights to participate in any distribution of the assets of any of our subsidiaries, for example, upon their liquidation or reorganization, and the ability of holders of our common stock to benefit indirectly from a distribution, are subject to the prior claims of creditors of the applicable subsidiary, except to the extent that we may be a creditor of that subsidiary. Claims on these subsidiaries by persons other than us include, as of December, 2010, claims by policyholders for benefits payable amounting to $116.9 billion, claims by separate account holders of $159.7 billion, and other liabilities including claims of trade creditors, claims from guaranty associations and claims from holders of debt obligations, amounting to $13.9 billion.  In addition, as a savings and loan holding company, we are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, including with respect to required capital, cash flow, organization structure, risk management and earnings at the parent company level. We will be subject to similar, potentially stricter, requirements when regulatory authority over us transfers to The Federal Reserve (for our holding company) and the OCC (for FTB).   22    Table of Contents  Holders of our capital stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Moreover, our common stockholders are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of our preferred stock or depositary shares representing such preferred stock then outstanding. As of December 31, 2010, there were 575,000 shares of our Series F Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. Under the terms of the Series F Preferred Stock, our ability to declare and pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock will be subject to restrictions in the event we fail to declare and pay (or set aside for payment) full dividends on the Series F Preferred Stock.  The terms of our outstanding junior subordinated debt securities also prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on our capital stock or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if we have given notice of our election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing.  As a property and casualty insurer, the premium rates we are able to charge and the profits we are able to obtain are affected by the actions of state insurance departments that regulate our business, the cyclical nature of the business in which we compete and our ability to adequately price the risks we underwrite, which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  Pricing adequacy depends on a number of factors, including the ability to obtain regulatory approval for rate changes, proper evaluation of underwriting risks, the ability to project future loss cost frequency and severity based on historical loss experience adjusted for known trends, our response to rate actions taken by competitors, and expectations about regulatory and legal developments and expense levels. We seek to price our property and casualty insurance policies such that insurance premiums and future net investment income earned on premiums received will provide for an acceptable profit in excess of underwriting expenses and the cost of paying claims.  State insurance departments that regulate us often propose premium rate changes for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and may not allow us to reach targeted levels of profitability. In addition to regulating rates, certain states have enacted laws that require a property and casualty insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities, joint underwriting associations and other residual market plans, or to offer coverage to all consumers and often restrict an insurer’s ability to charge the price it might otherwise charge. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of business at lower than desired rates, participate in the operating losses of residual market plans or pay assessments to fund operating deficits of state-sponsored funds, possibly leading to an unacceptable returns on equity. The laws and regulations of many states also limit an insurer’s ability to withdraw from one or more lines of insurance in the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state’s insurance department. Additionally, certain states require insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the state. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  Additionally, the property and casualty insurance market is historically cyclical, experiencing periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively low levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. Prices tend to increase for a particular line of business when insurance carriers have incurred significant losses in that line of business in the recent past or when the industry as a whole commits less of its capital to writing exposures in that line of business. Prices tend to decrease when recent loss experience has been favorable or when competition among insurance carriers increases. In a number of product lines and states, we continue to experience premium rate reductions. In these product lines and states, there is a risk that the premium we charge may ultimately prove to be inadequate as reported losses emerge. Even in a period of rate increases, there is a risk that regulatory constraints, price competition or incorrect pricing assumptions could prevent us from achieving targeted returns. Inadequate pricing could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.  If we are unable to maintain the availability of our systems and safeguard the security of our data due to the occurrence of disasters or other unanticipated events, our ability to conduct business may be compromised, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  We use computer systems to store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer and company data and information. Our computer, information technology and telecommunications systems, in turn, interface with and rely upon third-party systems. Our business is highly dependent on our ability, and the ability of certain affiliated third parties, to access these systems to perform necessary business functions, including, without limitation, providing insurance quotes, processing premium payments, making changes to existing policies, filing and paying claims, administering variable annuity products and mutual funds, providing customer support and managing our investment portfolios and hedging programs. Systems failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business and hurt our relationships with our business partners and customers. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or war, our systems may be inaccessible to our employees, customers or business partners for an extended period of time. Even if our employees are able to report to work, they may be unable to perform their duties for an extended period of time if our data or systems are disabled or destroyed. Our systems could also be subject to physical and electronic break-ins, and subject to similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our systems. This may impede or interrupt our business operations and may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition or cash flows.   23    Table of Contents  Our framework for managing business risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us that could adversely affect our businesses.  Our business performance is highly dependent on our ability to manage risks that arise from a large number of day-to-day business activities, including insurance underwriting, claims processing, servicing, investment, financial and tax reporting, compliance with regulatory requirements and other activities, many of which are very complex and for some of which we rely on third parties. We seek to monitor and control our exposure to risks arising out of these activities through a risk control framework encompassing a variety of reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. We cannot be completely confident that these processes and procedures will effectively control all known risks or effectively identify unforeseen risks, or that our employees and third-party agents will effectively implement them. Management of business risks can fail for a number of reasons, including design failure, systems failure, failures to perform or unlawful activities on the part of employees or third parties. In the event that our controls are not effective or not properly implemented, we could suffer financial or other loss, disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. Losses resulting from these failures can vary significantly in size, scope and scale and may have material adverse effects on our financial condition or results of operations.  If we experience difficulties arising from outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct business may be compromised.  We outsource certain technology and business functions to third parties and expect to do so selectively in the future. If we do not effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy, third-party providers do not perform as anticipated, or we experience problems with a transition, we may experience operational difficulties, inability to meet obligations, including, but not limited to, policyholder obligations, increased costs and a loss of business that may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.  Potential changes in federal or state tax laws, including changes impacting the availability of the separate account dividend received deduction, could adversely affect our business, consolidated operating results or financial condition or liquidity.  Many of the products that the Company sells benefit from one or more forms of tax-favored status under current federal and state income tax regimes. For example, the Company sells life insurance policies that benefit from the deferral or elimination of taxation on earnings accrued under the policy, as well as permanent exclusion of certain death benefits that may be paid to policyholders’ beneficiaries. We also sell annuity contracts that allow the policyholders to defer the recognition of taxable income earned within the contract. Other products that the Company sells also enjoy similar, as well as other, types of tax advantages. The Company also benefits from certain tax items, including but not limited to, tax-exempt bond interest, dividends-received deductions, tax credits (such as foreign tax credits), and insurance reserve deductions.  Due in large part to the recent financial crisis that has affected many governments, there is an increasing risk that federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted that would result in higher taxes on insurance companies and/or their policyholders. Although the specific form of any such potential legislation is uncertain, it could include lessening or eliminating some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company or its policyholders including, but not limited to, those mentioned above. This could occur in the context of deficit reduction or other tax reforms. The effects of any such changes could result in materially lower product sales, lapses of policies currently held, and/or our incurrence of materially higher corporate taxes.  Changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements could result in material changes to our reported results and financial condition.  U.S. GAAP and related financial reporting requirements are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by the relevant authoritative bodies. Such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. Changes in U.S. GAAP and financial reporting requirements, or in the interpretation of U.S. GAAP or those requirements, could result in material changes to our reported results and financial condition. Moreover, the SEC is currently evaluating International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) to determine whether IFRS should be incorporated into the financial reporting system for U.S. issuers. Certain of these standards could result in material changes to our reported results of operation.  We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims.  We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we use a broad range of measures to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which represents a diversion of resources that may be significant in amount and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce the protection of our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete.  We also may be subject to costly litigation in the event that another party alleges our operations or activities infringe upon another party’s intellectual property rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that could be infringed by our products, methods, processes or services. Any party that holds such a patent could make a claim of infringement against us. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark, trade secret or license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed a third-party patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial liability, and in some circumstances could be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses, or alternatively could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   24    Table of Contents     Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS