Item 1A. Risk Factors, in Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and those identified from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These important risks and uncertainties include:•challenges related to the company's current operating environment, including continuing uncertainty about the strength and speed of the recovery in the United States and other key economies and the impact of governmental stimulus and austerity initiatives, sovereign credit concerns, a sustained low interest rate environment, higher tax rates and other potentially adverse developments on financial, commodity and credit markets and consumer and business spending and investment and the effect of these events on our returns in investment portfolios and our hedging costs associated with our variable annuities business; •the risks, challenges and uncertainties associated with our capital management plan and our strategic realignment to focus on our property and casualty, group benefits and mutual fund businesses, place our Individual Annuity business into run-off and the sale of the Individual Life, Woodbury Financial Services and the Retirement Plans businesses; •execution risk related to the continued reinvestment of our investment portfolios and refinement of our hedge program for our run-off annuity block;•market risks associated with our business, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, market volatility and foreign exchange rates, and implied volatility levels, as well as continuing uncertainty in key sectors such as the global real estate market;•the possibility of unfavorable loss development including with respect to long-tailed exposures;•the possibility of a pandemic, earthquake, or other natural or man-made disaster that may adversely affect our businesses;•weather and other natural physical events, including the severity and frequency of storms, hail, winter storms, hurricanes and tropical storms, as well as climate change and its potential impact on weather patterns;•risk associated with the use of analytical models in making decisions in key areas such as underwriting, capital, reserving, and catastrophe risk management; •the uncertain effects of emerging claim and coverage issues;•the Company’s ability to effectively price its property and casualty policies, including its ability to obtain regulatory consents to pricing actions or to non-renewal or withdrawal of certain product lines;•the impact on our statutory capital of various factors, including many that are outside the Company’s control, which can in turn affect our credit and financial strength ratings, cost of capital, regulatory compliance and other aspects of our business and results;•risks to our business, financial position, prospects and results associated with negative rating actions or downgrades in the Company’s financial strength and credit ratings or negative rating actions or downgrades relating to our investments;•the impact on our investment portfolio if our investment portfolio is concentrated in any particular segment of the economy;•volatility in our earnings and potential material changes to our results resulting from our adjustment of our risk management program to emphasize protection of economic value;•the potential for differing interpretations of the methodologies, estimations and assumptions that underlie the valuation of the Company’s financial instruments that could result in changes to investment valuations;•the subjective determinations that underlie the Company’s evaluation of other-than-temporary impairments on available-for-sale securities;•losses due to nonperformance or defaults by others;•the potential for further acceleration of deferred policy acquisition cost amortization;3Table of Contents•the potential for further impairments of our goodwill or the potential for changes in valuation allowances against deferred tax assets;•the possible occurrence of terrorist attacks and the Company’s ability to contain its exposure, including the effect of the absence or insufficiency of applicable terrorism legislation on coverage;•the difficulty in predicting the Company’s potential exposure for asbestos and environmental claims;•the response of reinsurance companies under reinsurance contracts and the availability, pricing and adequacy of reinsurance to protect the Company against losses;•actions by our competitors, many of which are larger or have greater financial resources than we do;•the Company’s ability to distribute its products through distribution channels, both current and future;•the cost and other effects of increased regulation as a result of the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which, among other effects, vests a Financial Services Oversight Council with the power to designate “systemically important” institutions, will require central clearing of, and/or impose new margin and capital requirements on, derivatives transactions, and created a new “Federal Insurance Office” within the U.S. Department of the Treasury (“Treasury”);•unfavorable judicial or legislative developments;•the potential effect of other domestic and foreign regulatory developments, including those that could adversely impact the demand for the Company’s products, operating costs and required capital levels;•regulatory limitations on the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries to declare and pay dividends;•the Company’s ability to maintain the availability of its systems and safeguard the security of its data in the event of a disaster, cyber or other information security incident or other unanticipated event;•the risk that our framework for managing operational risks may not be effective in mitigating material risk and loss to the Company;•the potential for difficulties arising from outsourcing relationships;•the impact of changes in federal or state tax laws;•regulatory requirements that could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests;•the impact of potential changes in accounting principles and related financial reporting requirements;•the impact of any future errors in financial reporting;•the Company’s ability to protect its intellectual property and defend against claims of infringement; and•other factors described in such forward-looking statements.Any forward-looking statement made by the Company in this document speaks only as of the date of the filing of this Form 10-K. Factors or events that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Company to predict all of them. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.4Table of ContentsPART IItem 1. BUSINESS(Dollar amounts in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise stated)GeneralThe Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “The Hartford”, the “Company”, “we”, or “our”) is an insurance and financial services company. The Hartford, headquartered in Connecticut, is among the largest providers of property and casualty insurance and investment products to both individual and business customers in the United States of America. Also, The Hartford continues to manage life and annuity products previously sold. Hartford Fire Insurance Company, founded in 1810, is the oldest of The Hartford’s subsidiaries. At December 31, 2012, total assets and total stockholders’ equity of The Hartford were $298.5 billion and $22.4 billion, respectively.OrganizationThe Hartford strives to maintain and enhance its position as a market leader within the financial services industry. The Company sells diverse and innovative products through multiple distribution channels to consumers and businesses. The Company seeks on an ongoing basis to develop and expand its distribution channels, achieving cost efficiencies through economies of scale and improved technology, and capitalizes on its brand name and The Hartford Stag Logo, one of the most recognized symbols in the financial services industry.In 2012, The Hartford concluded an evaluation of its strategy and business portfolio. The Company is currently focusing on its Property & Casualty, Group Benefits and Mutual Fund businesses. The objective of this realignment is to position the organization for higher returns on equity, reduced sensitivity to capital markets, a lower cost of capital and increased financial flexibility. As a result, the Company completed the sales of its Retirement Plans and Individual Life businesses in January 2013 and in 2012, the Company sold Woodbury Financial Services, Inc. ("Woodbury Financial Services", "WFS") an indirect wholly-owned broker-dealer subsidiary, and placed its annuity businesses into runoff.As a holding company that is separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. has no significant business operations of its own. Therefore, it relies on the dividends from its insurance companies and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash flow to meet its obligations. Additional information regarding the cash flow and liquidity needs of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. may be found in the Capital Resources and Liquidity section of Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”).Reporting SegmentsThe Hartford currently conducts business principally in six reporting segments including Property & Casualty Commercial, Consumer Markets, Property & Casualty Other Operations, Group Benefits, Mutual Funds and Talcott Resolution (formerly Life Other Operations), as well as a Corporate category. The Hartford includes in its Corporate category the Company’s debt financing and related interest expense, as well as other capital raising activities; and certain purchase accounting adjustments and other charges not allocated to the reporting segments.The following discussion describes the principal products and services, marketing and distribution, and competition of The Hartford's reporting segments. For further discussion on the reporting segments, including financial disclosures of revenues by product line, geographical revenue, net income (loss), and assets for each reporting segment, see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 5Table of ContentsProperty & Casualty CommercialPrincipal Products and ServicesProperty & Casualty Commercial provides workers’ compensation, property, automobile, liability and umbrella coverages under several different products, primarily throughout the United States, within its standard commercial lines, which consists of The Hartford’s small commercial and middle market lines of business. Additionally, a variety of customized insurance products and risk management services including workers’ compensation, automobile, general liability, professional liability, livestock and specialty casualty coverages are offered through the segment’s specialty lines.Standard commercial lines seeks to offer products with coverage options and customized pricing based on the policyholder’s individualized risk characteristics. For small businesses, those businesses whose annual payroll is under $5 and whose revenue and property values are less than $15 each, property and liability coverages are bundled as part of a single multi-peril package policy marketed under the Spectrum name. Medium-sized businesses, companies whose payroll, revenue and property values exceed the small business definition, are served within middle market. The middle market line of business provides workers’ compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella fidelity, surety and marine coverages. Within the specialty lines, a significant portion of the specialty casualty business, including workers’ compensation business, is written through large deductible programs where the insured typically provides collateral to support loss payments made within their deductible. The specialty casualty business also provides retrospectively-rated programs where the premiums are adjustable based on loss experience. Captive and Specialty Programs provide tailored property and casualty programs primarily to customers with common risk characteristics and those seeking a loss sensitive solution.Marketing and DistributionStandard commercial lines provide insurance products and services through the Company’s home office located in Hartford, Connecticut, and multiple domestic regional office locations and insurance centers. The products are marketed nationwide utilizing brokers and independent agents. The current pace of consolidation within the independent agent and broker distribution channel will likely continue such that, in the future a larger proportion of written premium will likely be concentrated among fewer agents and brokers. Additionally the Company offers insurance products to customers of payroll service providers through its relationships with major national payroll companies.Specialty lines also provide insurance products and services through its home office located in Hartford, Connecticut and multiple domestic office locations. Specialty lines markets its products nationwide utilizing a variety of distribution networks including independent retail agents, brokers and wholesalers.CompetitionIn the small commercial marketplace, The Hartford competes against a number of large national carriers, as well as regional carriers in certain territories. Competitors include other stock companies, mutual companies and other underwriting organizations. The small commercial market has become increasingly competitive as carriers seek to differentiate themselves through product expansion, price reduction, enhanced service and cutting-edge technology. Larger carriers such as The Hartford have improved their pricing sophistication and ease of doing business with agents through the use of predictive modeling tools and automation which speeds up the process of evaluating a risk and quoting new business.Written premium growth rates in the small commercial market have slowed in recent years and underwriting margins have been pressured by increases in loss costs, particularly in workers’ compensation, and higher catastrophes. A number of companies have sought to grow their business by increasing their underwriting appetite, appointing new agents and expanding business with existing agents. Also, carriers serving middle market-sized accounts are more aggressively competing for small commercial accounts as small commercial business has generally been less price-sensitive.Middle market business is characterized as “high touch” and involves case-by-case underwriting and pricing decisions. The pricing of middle market accounts is prone to significant variation or cyclicality over time, with sensitivity to legislative and macro-economic forces. Over the last several years, there has been a reduction in average premium size as shrinking company payrolls, smaller auto fleets, and fewer business locations depress insurance exposures. Additionally, various state legislative reforms in recent years designed to control workers compensation indemnity costs have led to rate reductions in many states. These factors, characterized by highly competitive pricing on new business, have resulted in more new business opportunities in the marketplace as customers shop their policies for a lower price. In the face of this competitive environment, The Hartford continues to maintain a disciplined underwriting approach. To gain a competitive advantage in this environment, carriers are improving automation with agents and brokers, increasing pricing sophistication, and enhancing their product offerings. These enhancements include industry specialization, with The Hartford and other national carriers tailoring products and services to specific industry verticals such as technology, health care and renewable energy.6Table of ContentsIn the surety business, favorable underwriting results over the past couple of years have led to increased competition for market share, setting the stage for potential written price decreases. Driven by the upheaval in the credit markets, new private construction activity has declined dramatically, resulting in lower demand for contract surety business.Specialty lines is comprised of a diverse group of businesses that operate independently within their specific industries. These businesses, while somewhat interrelated, have different business models and operating cycles. Specialty lines competes on an account- by-account basis due to the complex nature of each transaction. Competition in this market includes other stock companies, mutual companies, alternative risk sharing groups and other underwriting organizations. The relatively large size and underwriting capacity of The Hartford provides opportunities not available to smaller companies. Disciplined underwriting and targeted returns are the objectives of specialty lines since premium writings may fluctuate based on the segment’s view of perceived market opportunity.For specialty casualty businesses, written pricing competition continues to be significant, particularly for the larger individual accounts. Carriers are aggressively negotiating renewals with customers by initiating the renewal process well in advance of the policy renewal date, to improve retention, reducing new business opportunities within the marketplace. Within the national account business, as the market firms, more insureds may opt for loss-sensitive products in lieu of guaranteed cost policies.Carriers writing professional liability business are increasingly focused on profitable private, middle market companies. This trend has continued as the downturn in the economy has led to a significant drop in the number of initial public offerings, and volatility for all public companies. Also, carriers’ new business opportunities in the marketplace for directors & officers and errors & omissions insurance have been significantly influenced by customer perceptions of financial strength, as investment portfolio losses have had a negative effect on the financial strength ratings of some insurers.In the commercial marketplace, the weak economy has prompted carriers to offer differentiated products and services as a means of gaining a competitive advantage. In addition to the initiatives specific to each of The Hartford’s Property & Casualty Commercial lines of business noted above, the Company is leveraging its diverse product, service and distribution capabilities to deliver differentiated value in the market, while simultaneously increasing its ability to access its own diverse customer base for new product sales.Consumer MarketsPrincipal Products and ServicesConsumer Markets provides standard automobile, homeowners and home-based business coverages to individuals across the United States, including a special program designed exclusively for members of AARP (“AARP Program”). The Hartford's auto and homeowners products provide coverage options and customized pricing tailored to a customer's individual risk. The Hartford has individual customer relationships with AARP Program policyholders and, as a group, these customers represent a significant portion of the total Consumer Markets' business. Business sold to AARP members, either direct or through independent agents, amounted to earned premiums of $2.8 billion, $2.8 billion and $2.9 billion in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Consumer Markets also operates a member contact center for health insurance products offered through the AARP Health program, with the current agreement in place through 2018.Marketing and DistributionConsumer Markets reaches diverse customers through multiple distribution channels including direct sales to the consumer, brokers and independent agents. In direct sales to the consumer, the Company markets its products through a mix of media, including direct mail and e-commerce marketing, television and advertising, both digitally and in publications. Most of Consumer Markets' direct sales to the consumer are associated with its exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP, with the current agreement in place until January 1, 2020, to market automobile, homeowners and home-based business insurance products to AARP's approximately 37 million members. This agreement provides Consumer Markets with an important competitive advantage given the number of “baby boomers” over age 50, many of whom become AARP members. Consumer Markets is also focused on targeting specific customer groups and writing business through partnerships and affinities other than AARP. The Company has affinity agreements with the American Kennel Club, Sierra Club, the National Wildlife Federation and Direct Selling Association. In addition to selling product through its relationship with AARP and other affinities, the Company markets direct to the consumer within select underwriting markets, acquired through partnerships or list acquisitions, and to consumers in geographies where it is especially competitive.The agency channel provides customized products and services to customers through a network of independent agents in the standard personal lines market. These independent agents are not employees of The Hartford. During 2011 and 2012, the Company completed the rollout of its Open Road Advantage auto product and its Hartford Home Advantage homeowners' product.7Table of ContentsCompetitionThe personal lines automobile and homeowners businesses are highly competitive. Personal lines insurance is written by insurance companies of varying sizes that compete on the basis of price, product, service (including claims handling), stability of the insurer and brand recognition. Companies with recognized brands, direct sales capability and economies of scale will have a competitive advantage. In recent years, a number of carriers have increased their advertising in an effort to gain new business and retain profitable business. This has been particularly true of carriers that sell directly to the consumer. Industry sales of personal lines insurance direct to the consumer have been growing faster than sales through agents, particularly for auto insurance.Carriers that distribute products mainly through agents compete by offering agents commissions and additional incentives to attract new business. To distinguish themselves in the marketplace, top tier carriers are offering on-line and self service capabilities to agents and consumers. More agents have been using “comparative rater” tools that allow the agent to compare premium quotes among several insurance companies. The use of comparative rater tools has further increased price competition. Carriers with more efficient cost structures will have an advantage in competing for new business through price. The use of data mining and predictive modeling is used by more and more carriers to target the most profitable business and carriers have further segmented their pricing plans to expand market share in what they believe to be the most profitable segments. Some companies, including The Hartford, have written a greater percentage of their new business in preferred market segments which tend to have better loss experience but also lower average premiums. In addition, a number of companies have invested in telematics — the use of devices in insured vehicles to transmit information about driving behavior such as miles driven, speed, acceleration, deceleration — and are using that information to price the risk. Companies that are the first to introduce telematics may enjoy a competitive advantage through favorable risk selection.Group BenefitsPrincipal Products and ServicesGroup Benefits provides group life, accident and disability coverage, group retiree health and voluntary benefits to individual members of employer groups, associations, affinity groups and financial institutions. Group Benefits offers disability underwriting, administration, claims processing and reinsurance to other insurers and self-funded employer plans. Policies sold in this segment are generally term insurance, allowing Group Benefits to adjust the rates or terms of its policies in order to minimize the adverse effect of market trends, declining interest rates, and other factors. Policies are typically sold with one, two or three-year rate guarantees depending upon the product.In addition to the products and services traditionally offered within each of its lines of business, Group Benefits offers The Hartford Productivity Advantage (“THPA”), a single-company solution for leave management, integrating work absence data from the insurer’s short-term and long-term group disability and workers’ compensation insurance with its leave management administration services.Marketing and DistributionThe Group Benefits distribution network includes an experienced group of Company employees, managed through a regional sales office system, to distribute its group insurance products and services through a variety of distribution outlets including brokers, consultants, third-party administrators and trade associations.CompetitionGroup Benefits competes with numerous other insurance companies and other financial intermediaries marketing insurance products. This line of business focuses on both its risk management expertise and economies of scale to derive a competitive advantage. Competitive factors affecting Group Benefits include the variety and quality of products and services offered, the price quoted for coverage and services, the Company’s relationships with its third-party distributors, and the quality of customer service. In addition, active price competition continues in the marketplace resulting in multi-year rate guarantees being offered to customers. Top tier carriers in the marketplace also offer on-line and self service capabilities to agents and consumers. The relatively large size and underwriting capacity of the Group Benefits business provides opportunities not available to smaller companies.8Table of ContentsMutual FundsPrincipal Products and ServicesMutual Funds offers mutual funds for retail accounts such as retirement plans and 529 college savings plans and provides investment-management and administrative services such as product design, implementation and oversight. In 2012, Mutual Funds expanded its relationship with Wellington Management, which serves as the primary sub-advisor for The Hartford’s 57 retail mutual funds, including equity, fixed-income and asset-allocation funds. Marketing and DistributionMutual Fund sales professionals are segmented into two teams; a retail team and an institutional team. The retail team distributes The Hartford’s open-end funds and markets 529 college savings plans to national and regional broker-dealer organizations, banks and other financial institutions, independent financial advisors and registered investment advisors. The institutional team distributes The Hartford’s funds to professional buyers, such as broker-dealers, consultants, record keepers, and bank trust groups.CompetitionMutual Funds compete with other mutual fund companies along with investment brokerage companies and differentiate themselves through product solutions, performance, and service. In this non-proprietary broker sold market, the Company and its competitors compete aggressively for net sales.Talcott Resolution Talcott Resolution's business is comprised of runoff business from the Company's U.S. annuity, international annuity, and institutional and private-placement life insurance businesses. Talcott Resolution's mission is to pursue opportunities to reduce the size and risk of the annuity book of business while honoring the Company's obligations to its annuity contractholders. Talcott Resolution manages approximately 1.7 million annuity contracts with account values of approximately $163 billion as of December 31, 2012.In 2009, the Company suspended international annuity sales in its Japan and European operations and institutional annuity sales in the United States. In March 2012, the Company announced its intention to place its U.S. annuity business into runoff and sell its Retirement Plans and Individual Life businesses. Subsequently, the Company completed the sale of its U.S. individual annuities new business capabilities to Forethought Financial Group and the sale of the administration and operating assets of its private placement life insurance business to Philadelphia Financial Group, Inc. The Talcott Resolution business segment also includes our Retirement Plans and Individual Life businesses that were sold in January 2013. For further discussion of these transactions, see Note 2 - Business Dispositions of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.ReservesThe Hartford establishes and carries as liabilities reserves for its insurance products to estimate for the following:•a liability for unpaid losses, including those that have been incurred but not yet reported, as well as estimates of all expenses associated with processing and settling these claims;•a liability equal to the balance that accrues to the benefit of the life insurance policyholder as of the consolidated financial statement date, otherwise known as the account value;•a liability for future policy benefits, representing the present value of future benefits to be paid to or on behalf of policyholders less the present value of future net premiums;•fair value reserves for living benefits embedded derivative guarantees; and•death and living benefit reserves which are computed based on a percentage of revenues less actual claim costs.Further discussion of The Hartford’s property and casualty insurance product reserves, including asbestos and environmental claims reserves, may be found in Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Critical Accounting Estimates — Property and Casualty Insurance Product Reserves, Net of Reinsurance. Additional discussion may be found in the Company’s accounting policies for insurance product reserves within Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.9Table of ContentsReinsuranceThe Hartford cedes insurance to affiliated and unaffiliated insurers for both its property and casualty and life insurance products. Such arrangements do not relieve The Hartford of its primary liability to policyholders. Failure of reinsurers to honor their obligations could result in losses to The Hartford.For property and casualty insurance products, reinsurance arrangements are intended to provide greater diversification of business and limit The Hartford’s maximum net loss arising from large risks or catastrophes. A major portion of The Hartford’s property and casualty insurance product reinsurance is effected under general reinsurance contracts known as treaties, or, in some instances, is negotiated on an individual risk basis, known as facultative reinsurance. The Hartford also has in-force excess of loss contracts with reinsurers that protect it against a specified part or all of a layer of losses over stipulated amounts.For life insurance products, The Hartford is involved in both the cession and assumption of insurance with other insurance and reinsurance companies. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company’s policy for the largest amount of life insurance retained on any one life by any one of its operations was $10. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Company did not make any significant changes in the terms under which reinsurance is ceded to other insurers. The Company entered into two reinsurance transactions upon completion of the sales of its Retirement Plans and Individual Life businesses in January 2013. See Note 2 - Business Dispositions of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these transactions. In addition, the Company has reinsured a portion of the risk associated with U.S. variable annuities and the associated guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”) and guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (“GMWB”) riders, and of the risks associated with variable annuity contract and rider benefits issued by Hartford Life Insurance K.K.'s (“HLIKK”), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary.For further discussion on reinsurance, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management. Additional discussion may be found in the Company’s accounting policies for reinsurance within Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Investment OperationsThe majority of the Company’s investment portfolios are managed by Hartford Investment Management Company (“HIMCO”). HIMCO manages the portfolios to maximize economic value, while attempting to generate the income necessary to support the Company’s various product obligations, within internally established objectives, guidelines and risk tolerances. The portfolio objectives and guidelines are developed based upon the asset/liability profile, including duration, convexity and other characteristics within specified risk tolerances. The risk tolerances considered include, for example, asset and credit issuer allocation limits, maximum portfolio limits for below investment grade holdings and foreign currency exposure limits. The Company attempts to minimize adverse impacts to the portfolio and the Company’s results of operations from changes in economic conditions through asset allocation limits, asset/liability duration matching and through the use of derivatives. For further discussion of HIMCO’s portfolio management approach, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management — Credit Risk.In addition to managing the general account assets of the Company, HIMCO is also a SEC registered investment adviser for third party institutional clients, a sub-advisor for certain mutual funds and serves as the sponsor and collateral manager for capital markets transactions. HIMCO specializes in investment management that incorporates proprietary research and active portfolio management within a disciplined risk framework that seeks to provide value added returns versus peers and benchmarks. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the fair value of HIMCO’s total assets under management was approximately $144.1 billion and $164.9 billion, respectively, of which $7.6 billion and $7.1 billion, respectively, were held in HIMCO managed third party accounts.Enterprise Risk ManagementThe Company has an enterprise risk management function (“ERM”) that is charged with providing analysis of the Company's risks on an individual and aggregated basis and with ensuring that the Company's risks remain within its risk appetite and tolerances. ERM plays an integral role at The Hartford by fostering a strong risk management culture and discipline. The mission of ERM is to support the Company in achieving its strategic priorities by:•Providing a comprehensive view of the risks facing the Company, including risk concentrations and correlations;•Helping management define the Company's overall capacity and appetite for risk by evaluating the risk return profile of the business relative to the Company's strategic intent and financial underpinning;•Assisting management in setting specific risk tolerances and limits that are measurable, actionable, and comply with the Company's overall risk philosophy;•Communicating and monitoring the firm's risk exposures relative to set limits and recommending, or implementing as appropriate, mitigating strategies; and•Providing valuable insight to assist leaders in growing the businesses and achieving optimal risk-adjusted returns within established guidelines.10Table of ContentsEnterprise Risk Management Structure and GovernanceAt The Hartford, the Board of Directors (“the Board”) has ultimate responsibility for risk oversight. It exercises its oversight function through its standing committees, each of which has primary risk oversight responsibility with respect to all matters within the scope of its duties as contemplated by its charter. In addition, the Finance, Investment and Risk Management Committee (“FIRMCo”), which is comprised of all members of the Board, has responsibility for overseeing the investment activities, financial management, and risk management activities of the Company and its subsidiaries, and all risks that do not fall within the oversight responsibility of any other standing committee. The Audit Committee is responsible for discussing with management risk assessment policies and overseeing enterprise operational risk.At the corporate level, the Company's Enterprise Chief Risk Officer (“ECRO” or “Chief Risk Officer”) leads ERM. The Chief Risk Officer reports directly to the Company's Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”). Reporting to the ECRO are the Chief Insurance Risk Officer (“CIRO”), Chief Operational Risk Officer (“CORO”), Chief Market Risk Officer (“CMRO”), Head of Asset Liability Management, and HIMCO Chief Risk Officer. The Company has established the Enterprise Risk and Capital Committee (“ERCC”) that includes the Company's CEO, Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), Chief Investment Officer (“CIO”), Chief Risk Officer, the divisional Presidents and the General Counsel. The ERCC is responsible for managing the Company's risks and overseeing the enterprise risk management program. The ERCC also manages the capital structure of the enterprise and is responsible the attribution of capital to the lines of business. The ERCC reports to the Board primarily through FIRMCo and through interactions with the Audit Committee.The Company also has committees that manage specific risks and recommend risk mitigation strategies to the ERCC. These committees include, but are not limited to, the Company and Division Asset Liability Committees, Catastrophe Risk Committee, Emerging Risk Committees, Model Oversight Committees (“MOC”) and Operational Risk Committee (“ORC”).Risk Management FrameworkAt the Company, risk is managed at multiple levels. The first line of risk management is generally the responsibility of the lines of business. Senior business leaders are responsible for taking and managing risks specific to their business objectives and business environment. In many cases, the second line of risk management is the principal responsibility of ERM. ERM has the responsibility to ensure the Company has insight into its aggregate risk and that risks are managed within the Company's overall risk tolerance. Internal Audit forms the third line of risk management by helping assess and ensure that risk controls are present and effective.The Company's Risk Management Framework consists of four core elements:1.Risk Culture and Governance: The Company has established policies for its major risks and a formal governance structure with leadership oversight and an assignment of accountability and authority. The governance structure starts at the Board and cascades to the ERCC and then to individual risk committees across the Company. In addition, the Company promotes a strong risk management culture and high expectations around ethical behavior.2. Risk Identification and Assessment: Through its ERM organization, the Company has developed processes for the identification, assessment, and, when appropriate, response to internal and external risks to the Company's operations and business objectives. Risk identification and prioritization has been established within each area, including processes around emerging risks.3.Risk Appetite and Limits: The Company has a formal risk appetite framework that is approved by the Company's ERCC and reviewed by the Board. The risk appetite framework includes risk appetite statements, risk preferences, risk tolerances and an associated limit structure for each of its major insurance and financial risks. These formal limits are encapsulated in formal risk policies that are reviewed at least annually by the ERCC.4.Risk Monitoring, Controls and Communication: The Company monitors its major risks at the enterprise level through a number of enterprise reports, including but not limited to, a monthly risk dashboard, tracking the return on risk-capital across products, and regular stress testing. ERM communicates the Company's risk exposures to senior and executive management and the Board, and reviews key business performance metrics, risk indicators, audit reports, risk/control self assessments and risk event data.11Table of ContentsRisk Exposures and QuantificationThe Company quantifies its enterprise insurance and financial risk exposures using multiple lenses including statutory, economic and, where appropriate, U.S. GAAP. ERM leverages various modeling techniques and metrics to provide a view of the Company's risk exposure in both normal and stressed environments. ERM regularly monitors the Company's risk exposure as compared to defined statutory limits and provides regular reporting to the ERCC.In order to quantify group capital levels the Company uses an Economic Capital Model (“ECM”) to quantify the value of risk management across the business lines and to advance its risk-based decision-making and optimization across risk and business. The Company also uses the ECM to inform the attribution of risk capital to each line of business. The Company categorizes its main risks as follows in order to achieve a consistent and disciplined approach to quantifying, evaluating, and managing risk:•Insurance Risk•Operational Risk•Financial Risk•Business RiskInsurance RiskThe Company defines insurance risk as its exposure to loss due to property, liability, mortality, morbidity, disability, longevity and other perils and risks covered under its policies, including adverse development on loss reserves supporting its products and geographic accumulations of loss over time due to property or casualty catastrophes.Operational RiskThe Company defines operational risk as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.Financial RiskFinancial risk is broadly defined by the Company to include liquidity, interest rate, equity, foreign exchange, and credit risks, all of which have the potential to materially impact the Company's financial condition. Financial risk also includes exposure to events that may cause correlated movement in the above risk factors.Business RiskThe Company manages its business risk at all levels of the organization. The Company categorizes its business risk as strategic risk and management risk. Strategic risk is defined as the risk to the defined company objectives from adverse developments in the Company's strategy vis-à-vis changing market conditions and competitor actions. Management risk is defined as the risk to defined company objectives from the ineffective or inefficient execution of the Company's strategic and business decisions. Enterprise strategic and management risks are assessed through strategic, business and operating plan reviews, as well as through management self-assessment processes and benchmarking.For further discussion on risk management, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management.RegulationInsurance companies are subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision throughout the United States. The extent of such regulation varies, but generally has its source in statutes which delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to state insurance departments. Such powers relate to, among other things, the standards of solvency that must be met and maintained; the licensing of insurers and their agents; the nature of and limitations on investments; establishing premium rates; claim handling and trade practices; restrictions on the size of risks which may be insured under a single policy; deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; approval of policy forms; periodic examinations of the affairs of companies; annual and other reports required to be filed on the financial condition of companies or for other purposes; fixing maximum interest rates on life insurance policy loans and minimum rates for accumulation of surrender values; and the adequacy of reserves and other necessary provisions for unearned premiums, unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and other liabilities, both reported and unreported.12Table of ContentsMost states have enacted legislation that regulates insurance holding company systems such as The Hartford. This legislation provides that each insurance company in the system is required to register with the insurance department of its state of domicile and furnish information concerning the operations of companies within the holding company system that may materially affect the operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system. All transactions within a holding company system affecting insurers must be fair and equitable. Notice to the insurance departments is required prior to the consummation of transactions affecting the ownership or control of an insurer and of certain material transactions between an insurer and any entity in its holding company system. In addition, certain of such transactions cannot be consummated without the applicable insurance department’s prior approval. In the jurisdictions in which the Company’s insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled, the acquisition of more than 10% of The Hartford’s outstanding common stock would require the acquiring party to make various regulatory filings.Certain of the Company’s life insurance subsidiaries sold variable life insurance, variable annuity, and some fixed guaranteed products that are “securities” registered with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Some of the products have separate accounts that are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “1940 Act”), and/or are regulated by state law. Separate account investment products are also subject to state insurance regulation. Moreover, each separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund that is also registered as an investment company under the 1940 Act (“Underlying Funds”). The Company offers these Underlying Funds and retail mutual funds that are registered with and regulated by the SEC.In addition, other subsidiaries of the Company sold and distributed the Company’s variable insurance products, Underlying Funds and retail mutual funds as broker dealers and are subject to regulation promulgated and enforced by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), the SEC and/or in, some instances, state securities administrators. Other entities operate as investment advisers registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and are registered as investment advisers under certain state laws, as applicable. One subsidiary is an investment company registered under the 1940 Act. Because federal and state laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in securities markets, they generally grant regulators broad rulemaking and enforcement authority. Some of these regulations include, among other things, regulations impacting sales methods, trading practices, suitability of investments, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds, corporate governance, capital, record keeping, and reporting requirements.The extent of insurance regulation on business outside the United States varies significantly among the countries in which The Hartford operates. Some countries have minimal regulatory requirements, while others regulate insurers extensively. Foreign insurers in certain countries are faced with greater restrictions than domestic competitors domiciled in that particular jurisdiction. The Hartford’s international operations are comprised of insurers licensed in their respective countries.In addition, as described under “Legislative Developments,” we are subject to a number of Dodd-Frank Act provisions. Failure to comply with federal and state laws and regulations may result in censure, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension, termination or limitation of the activities of our operations and/or our employees. We cannot predict the impact of these actions on our businesses, results of operations or financial condition.Intellectual PropertyWe rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property.We have a worldwide trademark portfolio that we consider important in the marketing of our products and services, including, among others, the trademarks of The Hartford name, the Stag Logo and the combination of these two marks. The duration of trademark registrations varies from country to country and may be renewed indefinitely subject to country-specific use and registration requirements. We regard our trademarks as extremely valuable assets in marketing our products and services and vigorously seek to protect them against infringement.EmployeesThe Hartford has approximately 22,500 employees as of December 31, 2012.Available InformationThe Hartford makes available, free of charge, on or through its Internet website (http://www.thehartford.com) The Hartford’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after The Hartford electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. None of the information made available on The Hartford’s Internet website shall be deemed to be incorporated by reference herein and the reference to The Hartford's Internet website is provided as an inactive textual reference only. Information filed or furnished to the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet website (http://sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.13Table of ContentsItem 1A. RISK FACTORSInvesting in The Hartford involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in The Hartford, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, any of which could have a significant or material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity of The Hartford and could also cause the trading price of our securities, including our common stock and other equity-related securities, to experience significant fluctuations and volatility. However, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones related to our business and The Hartford may also be subject to other general risks that are not specifically enumerated which may have a significant or material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity of The Hartford. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by The Hartford with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The following risk factors are not necessarily listed in order of importance.Our operating environment remains subject to uncertainty about the timing and strength of an economic recovery. The success of the realignment of our businesses and our capital management plan are subject to material challenges, uncertainties and risks and may not be adequate to mitigate the financial, competitive and other risks associated with our operating environment, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The significant disruptions and difficult conditions in global economies and capital markets experienced in recent years has cast significant uncertainty regarding the timing and strength of an economic recovery, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity in 2013. Continued high unemployment, lower family income, higher tax rates, including on small business owners, lower business investment and lower consumer spending have adversely affected or may in the future adversely affect the demand for financial and insurance products, as well as their profitability in some cases. The rate of growth and recovery, including employment levels, from the recession has been below historic levels and a period of slow growth may persist for an extended period of time, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The success of the realignment of our businesses and our capital management plan remain subject to material challenges, uncertainties and risks. We may not achieve all of the benefits we expect to derive from our plan to repurchase $500 of our equity and reduce our debt by $1 billion over the course of 2013 and 2014 and our decision to focus on our Property and Casualty, Group Benefits and Mutual Fund businesses, place our Individual Annuity business into runoff and sell the Individual Life, Woodbury Financial Services and Retirement Plans businesses. Our capital management plan is subject to execution risks, including, among others, risks related to market fluctuations and investor interest and potential legal constraints that could delay execution at an otherwise optimal time. There can be no assurance that we will in fact complete our capital management plan over the planned time frame or at all. Further, our opportunities to reduce the size and risk of the variable annuity book may be limited and initiatives pursued may not achieve the anticipated benefits. We also may not be able to eliminate expenses associated with the divested businesses in the manner and on the schedule we currently anticipate and we may incur additional restructuring charges. We may take further actions beyond the capital management plan and business realignment, which may include acquisitions, divestitures or restructurings that may involve additional uncertainties and risks that negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, we are exposed to execution risk relating to the continued reinvestment of our investment portfolios and the continuing refinement of our hedge programs for our run-off annuity block. If our actions are not adequate, our ability to support the scale of our business and to absorb operating losses and liabilities under our customer contracts could be impaired, which would in turn adversely affect our overall competitiveness and the capital position of the Company. Our results, financial condition and statutory capital remain sensitive to equity and credit market performance and effects of interest rates and foreign currency, and we expect that market conditions will put pressure on returns in our investment portfolios and that our hedging costs (in particular with respect to our in-force variable annuity blocks) will remain higher than historical levels. Interest rates in recent periods continue to be at or near historically low levels. A sustained low interest rate environment would continue to pressure our net investment income and could result in lower margins, increased pension expense and lower estimated gross profits on certain products. Further, if global economic conditions worsen and real estate valuations drop to new cycle lows, we may experience additional realized and unrealized investment losses, particularly in the real estate and financial services sectors. Negative rating agency actions with respect to our investments could also indirectly adversely affect our statutory capital and risk-based capital (“RBC”) ratios, which could in turn have other negative consequences for our business and results. Even if the measures we have taken (or take in the future) are effective to mitigate the risks associated with our current operating environment, they may have unintended consequences. For example, rebalancing our hedging program to protect economic value, while being mindful of statutory surplus, may result in greater earnings volatility under generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (“U.S. GAAP”). We could be required to consider actions to manage our capital position and liquidity or further reduce our exposure to market and financial risks. We may also be forced to sell assets on unfavorable terms that could cause us to incur losses or lose the potential for market upside on those assets in a market recovery. We could also face other pressures, such as employee recruitment and retention issues and potential loss of distribution for our products. 14Table of ContentsWe are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, market volatility, foreign exchange rates and global real estate market deterioration that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. One important exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with our operations in Mutual Funds and Talcott Resolution, such as U.S. and international variable annuities, where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the assets under management. Should equity markets decline from current levels, assets under management and related fee income will be reduced. Such a decline could result in a need for significant additional allocated capital to certain insurance companies due to rating agency and regulatory requirements, including with respect to stress scenarios. Furthermore, certain of our products have guaranteed benefits that increase our potential obligation and statutory capital exposure should equity markets decline. Sustained declines in equity markets may result in the need to devote significant additional capital to support these products and adversely affect our ability to support our other businesses. Interest rates in recent periods continue to be at or near historically low levels. As noted above, a sustained low interest rate environment would continue to pressure our net investment income and could result in lower margins, increased pension expense and lower estimated gross profits on certain products. In addition, due to the long-term nature of the liabilities within our Talcott Resolution operations, such as structured settlements and guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, sustained declines in long-term interest rates subjects us to reinvestment risks, increased hedging costs, spread compression and capital volatility. A rise in interest rates, in the absence of other countervailing changes, will reduce the market value of our investment portfolio and, if long-term interest rates were to rise dramatically within a six-to-twelve month time period, certain products within our Talcott Resolution division might be exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate assets in an unrealized loss position. Although our products have features such as surrender charges and market-value adjustments, we are subject to disintermediation risk. An increase in interest rates can also impact our tax planning strategies and in particular our ability to utilize tax benefits to offset certain previously recognized realized capital losses.Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. If issuer credit spreads widen significantly or retain historically wide levels over an extended period of time, additional other-than-temporary impairments and decreases in the market value of our investment portfolio will likely result. In addition, losses have also occurred due to the volatility in credit spreads. When credit spreads widen, we incur losses associated with the credit derivatives where the Company assumes exposure. When credit spreads tighten, we incur losses associated with derivatives where the Company has purchased credit protection. If credit spreads tighten significantly, the Company's net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturities may be reduced. In addition, a reduction in market liquidity can make it difficult to value certain of our securities when trading becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may be more susceptible to significant period-to-period changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Our statutory surplus is also affected by widening credit spreads as a result of the accounting for the assets and liabilities on our fixed market value adjusted (“MVA”) annuities. Statutory separate account assets supporting the fixed MVA annuities are recorded at fair value. In determining the statutory reserve for the fixed MVA annuities we are required to use current crediting rates in the U.S. and Japanese LIBOR in Japan. In many capital market scenarios, current crediting rates in the U.S. are highly correlated with market rates implicit in the fair value of statutory separate account assets. As a result, the change in the statutory reserve from period to period will likely substantially offset the change in the fair value of the statutory separate account assets. However, in periods of volatile credit markets, actual credit spreads on investment assets may increase sharply for certain sub-sectors of the overall credit market, resulting in statutory separate account asset market value losses. As actual credit spreads are not fully reflected in current crediting rates in the U.S. or Japanese LIBOR in Japan, the calculation of statutory reserves will not substantially offset the change in fair value of the statutory separate account assets resulting in reductions in statutory surplus. This has resulted and may continue to result in the need to devote significant additional capital to support the fixed MVA product. Our primary foreign currency exchange risk is related to certain guaranteed benefits associated with the Japan and U.K. variable annuities. The strengthening of the yen compared with other currencies would substantially increase our exposure to pay yen-denominated obligations. In addition, our foreign currency exchange risk relates to net income from foreign operations, non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries, and our yen-denominated individual fixed annuity product. In general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will unfavorably affect net income from foreign operations, the value of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and realized gains or losses on the yen denominated annuity products. A strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to foreign currencies will increase our exposure to the U.S. variable annuity guarantee benefits where policyholders have elected to invest in international funds, generating losses and statutory surplus strain. 15Table of ContentsOur real estate market exposure includes investments in commercial mortgage-backed securities, residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations, mortgage and real estate partnerships, and mortgage loans. Deterioration in the real estate market in the recent past has adversely affected our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Significant further deterioration in the real estate market, including increases in property vacancy rates, delinquencies and foreclosures, could result in new cycle lows for market values and have a negative impact on sources of refinancing resulting in reduced market liquidity and higher risk premiums. This could result in impairments of real estate backed securities, a reduction in net investment income associated with real estate partnerships, and increases in our valuation allowance for mortgage loans. Significant declines in equity prices, changes in U.S. interest rates, changes in credit spreads, inflation, the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, or global real estate market deterioration, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected by unfavorable loss development. Our success, in part, depends upon our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses that we insure. We establish loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all unpaid losses and loss expenses incurred with respect to premiums earned on the policies that we write. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, loss reserves are estimates of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost, less what has been paid to date. These estimates are based upon actuarial and statistical projections and on our assessment of currently available data, as well as estimates of claims severity and frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Loss reserve estimates are refined periodically as experience develops and claims are reported and settled. Establishing an appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process. Because of this uncertainty, it is possible that our reserves at any given time will prove inadequate. Furthermore, since estimates of aggregate loss costs for prior accident years are used in pricing our insurance products, we could later determine that our products were not priced adequately to cover actual losses and related loss expenses in order to generate a profit. To the extent we determine that losses and related loss expenses are emerging unfavorably to our initial expectations, we will be required to increase reserves. Increases in reserves would be recognized as an expense during the period or periods in which these determinations are made, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations for the related period or periods. Depending on the severity and timing of any changes in these estimated losses, such determinations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We are particularly vulnerable to losses from catastrophes, both natural and man-made, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various unpredictable events, including earthquakes, hurricanes, hailstorms, severe winter weather, wind storms, fires, tornadoes, explosions, pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters. The geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposure for events occurring in a number of areas, including, but not limited to, hurricanes in Florida, the Gulf Coast, the Northeast and the Atlantic coast regions of the United States, tornadoes in the Midwest and Southeast, earthquakes in California and the New Madrid region of the United States, and the spread of disease in metropolitan areas. We expect that increases in the values and concentrations of insured property in these areas will continue to increase the severity of catastrophic events in the future. Starting in 2004 and 2005, third-party catastrophe loss models for hurricane loss events have incorporated medium-term forecasts of increased hurricane frequency and severity - reflecting the potential influence of multi-decadal climate patterns within the Atlantic. In addition, changing climate conditions across longer time scales, including the potential risk of broader climate change, may be increasing, or may in the future increase, the severity of certain natural catastrophe losses across various geographic regions. In addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may be increasing, or may in the future increase, the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes and increase the potency of viral pathogens and bacterial outbreaks that can cause pandemics or adverse mortality trends. Potential examples of the impact of climate change on catastrophe exposure include, but are not limited to the following: an increase in the frequency or severity of wind and thunderstorm and tornado/hailstorm events due to increased convection in the atmosphere, more frequent brush fires in certain geographies due to prolonged periods of drought, higher incidence of deluge flooding, and the potential for an increase in severity of the largest hurricane events due to higher sea surface temperatures. Additionally, due to such catastrophes, policyholders may be unable to meet their obligations to pay premiums on our insurance policies or make deposits on our investment products. Our liquidity could be constrained by a catastrophe, or multiple catastrophes, which could result in extraordinary losses. In addition, in part because accounting rules do not permit insurers to reserve for such catastrophic events until they occur, claims from catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. To the extent that loss experience unfolds or models improve, we will seek to reflect any of these changes in the design and pricing of our products. However, the Company may be exposed to regulatory or legislative actions that prevent a full accounting of loss expectations in the design or pricing of our products or result in additional risk-shifting to the insurance industry. 16Table of ContentsActual results could materially differ from the analytical models we use to assist our decision making in key areas such as underwriting, capital, hedging, reserving, and catastrophe risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We employ various modeling techniques (e.g., scenarios, predictive, stochastic and/or forecasting) to analyze and estimate exposures, loss trends and other risks associated with our assets and liabilities. We use the modeled outputs and related analyses to assist us in decision-making related to underwriting, pricing, capital allocation, reserving, hedging, reinsurance, and catastrophe risk. Both proprietary and third party models we use incorporate numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of interest rates, capital requirements, loss frequency and severity, currency exchange rates, policyholder behavior, equity markets and inflation, among others. The modeled outputs and related analyses are subject to the inherent limitations of any statistical analysis, including the use of historical internal and industry data and assumptions. Consequently, actual results may differ materially from our modeled results. The profitability and financial condition of the Company substantially depends on the extent to which our actual experience is consistent with assumptions we use in our models and ultimate model outputs. If, based upon these models or other factors, we misprice our products or our estimates of the risks we are exposed to prove to be materially inaccurate, our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity may be adversely affected. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected by the emergence of unexpected and unintended claim and coverage issues. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may either extend coverage beyond our underwriting intent or increase the frequency or severity of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued, and this liability may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity at the time it becomes known.As a property and casualty insurer, the premium rates we are able to charge and the profits we are able to obtain are affected by the actions of state insurance departments that regulate our business, the cyclical nature of the business in which we compete and our ability to adequately price the risks we underwrite, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Pricing adequacy depends on a number of factors, including the ability to obtain regulatory approval for rate changes, proper evaluation of underwriting risks, the ability to project future loss cost frequency and severity based on historical loss experience adjusted for known trends, our response to rate actions taken by competitors, and expectations about regulatory and legal developments and expense levels. We seek to price our property and casualty insurance policies such that insurance premiums and future net investment income earned on premiums received will provide for an acceptable profit in excess of underwriting expenses and the cost of paying claims. State insurance departments that regulate us often propose premium rate changes for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and may not allow us to reach targeted levels of profitability. In addition to regulating rates, certain states have enacted laws that require a property and casualty insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities, joint underwriting associations and other residual market plans, or to offer coverage to all consumers and often restrict an insurer's ability to charge the price it might otherwise charge or restrict an insurer's ability to offer or enforce specific policy deductibles. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of business at lower than desired rates or accept additional risk not contemplated in our existing rates, participate in the operating losses of residual market plans or pay assessments to fund operating deficits of state-sponsored funds, possibly leading to unacceptable returns on equity. The laws and regulations of many states also limit an insurer's ability to withdraw from one or more lines of insurance in the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state's insurance department. Additionally, certain states require insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the state. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Additionally, the property and casualty insurance market is historically cyclical, experiencing periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively low levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. Prices tend to increase for a particular line of business when insurance carriers have incurred significant losses in that line of business in the recent past or when the industry as a whole commits less of its capital to writing exposures in that line of business. Prices tend to decrease when recent loss experience has been favorable or when competition among insurance carriers increases. In all of our property and casualty insurance product lines and states, there is a risk that the premium we charge may ultimately prove to be inadequate as reported losses emerge. In addition, there is a risk that regulatory constraints, price competition or incorrect pricing assumptions could prevent us from achieving targeted returns. Inadequate pricing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.17Table of ContentsThe amount of statutory capital that we have, and the amount of statutory capital that we must hold to maintain our financial strength and credit ratings and meet other requirements, can vary significantly from time to time and is sensitive to a number of factors outside of our control, including equity market, credit market, interest rate and foreign currency conditions, changes in policyholder behavior and changes in rating agency models. We conduct the vast majority of our business through licensed insurance company subsidiaries. Accounting standards and statutory capital and reserve requirements for these entities are prescribed by the applicable insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”). Insurance regulators have established regulations that provide minimum capitalization requirements based on risk-based capital formulas for both life and property and casualty companies. The RBC formula for life companies establishes capital requirements relating to insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks, including equity, interest rate and expense recovery risks associated with variable annuities and group annuities that contain death benefits or certain living benefits. The RBC formula for property and casualty companies adjusts statutory surplus levels for certain underwriting, asset, credit and off-balance sheet risks. Our international operations are subject to regulation in the relevant jurisdiction in which they operate, which in many ways is similar to the state regulation outlined above, with similar related restrictions and obligations. In any particular year, statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios may increase or decrease depending on a variety of factors, including the amount of statutory income or losses generated by our insurance subsidiaries (which itself is sensitive to equity market and credit market conditions), the amount of additional capital our insurance subsidiaries must hold to support business growth, changes in equity market levels, the value of certain fixed-income and equity securities in our investment portfolio, the value of certain derivative instruments, changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, the impact of internal reinsurance arrangements, and changes to the NAIC RBC formulas. Most of these factors are outside of the Company's control. The Company's financial strength and credit ratings are significantly influenced by the statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios of our insurance company subsidiaries. In addition, rating agencies may implement changes to their internal models that have the effect of increasing the amount of statutory capital we must hold in order to maintain our current ratings. Also, in extreme scenarios of equity market declines and other capital market volatility, the amount of additional statutory reserves that we are required to hold for our variable annuity guarantees increases at a greater than linear rate. This reduces the statutory surplus used in calculating our RBC ratios. When equity markets increase, surplus levels and RBC ratios will generally increase. This may be offset, however, as a result of a number of factors and market conditions, including the level of hedging costs and other risk transfer activities, reserve requirements for death and living benefit guarantees and RBC requirements could also increase, lowering RBC ratios. For example, while our property and casualty companies are expected to generate statutory surplus in 2013, our life companies' statutory surplus, excluding the statutory surplus gain from the dispositions of Individual Life and Retirement Plans, is expected to be flat to positive in 2013, which while an improvement over 2012 is challenged due to continued low interest rates and high loss cost trends in Group Benefits. Due to these factors, projecting statutory capital and the related RBC ratios is complex. If our statutory capital resources are insufficient to maintain a particular rating by one or more rating agencies, we may seek to raise capital through public or private equity or debt financing. If we were not to raise additional capital, either at our discretion or because we were unable to do so, our financial strength and credit ratings might be downgraded by one or more rating agencies. Downgrades in our financial strength or credit ratings, which may make our products less attractive, could increase our cost of capital and inhibit our ability to refinance our debt, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Financial strength and credit ratings, including commercial paper ratings, are important in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Rating agencies assign ratings based upon several factors. While most of the factors relate to the rated company, some of the factors relate to the views of the rating agency, general economic conditions, and circumstances outside the rated company's control. In addition, rating agencies may employ different models and formulas to assess the financial strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies have, at their discretion, altered these models. Changes to the models, general economic conditions, or circumstances outside our control could impact a rating agency's judgment of its rating and the rating it assigns us. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which may adversely affect us. Our financial strength ratings, which are intended to measure our ability to meet policyholder obligations, are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of our products and, as a result, our competitiveness. A downgrade or a potential downgrade in the rating of our financial strength or of one of our principal insurance subsidiaries could affect our competitive position and reduce future sales of our products. 18Table of ContentsOur credit ratings also affect our cost of capital. A downgrade or a potential downgrade of our credit ratings could make it more difficult or costly to refinance maturing debt obligations, to support business growth at our insurance subsidiaries and to maintain or improve the financial strength ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries. Downgrades could begin to trigger potentially material collateral calls on certain of our derivative instruments and counterparty rights to terminate derivative relationships, both of which could limit our ability to purchase additional derivative instruments. These events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. For a further discussion of potential impacts of ratings downgrades on derivative instruments, including potential collateral calls, see the "Capital Resources and Liquidity - Derivative Commitments" section of Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.Concentration of our investment portfolio in any particular segment of the economy may have adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular industry, collateral type, group of related industries or geographic sector could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolios and consequently on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Events or developments that have a negative impact on any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic region may have a greater adverse effect on our investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated rather than diversified. Our adjustment of our risk management program relating to products we offered with guaranteed benefits to emphasize protection of economic value will likely result in greater U.S. GAAP volatility in our earnings and potentially material charges to net income (loss) in periods of rising equity market pricing levels. Some of the in-force business within our Talcott Resolution operations, especially variable annuities, offer guaranteed benefits which, in the event of a decline in equity markets, would not only result in lower earnings, but will also increase our exposure to liability for benefit claims. We are also subject to equity market volatility related to these benefits, including the guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (“GMWB”), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit (“GMAB”), guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”) and guaranteed minimum income benefit (“GMIB”) associated with in-force variable annuities. We use reinsurance structures and have modified benefit features to mitigate the exposure associated with GMDB. We also use reinsurance in combination with a modification of benefit features and derivative instruments to attempt to minimize the claim exposure and to reduce the volatility of net income associated with the GMWB liability. However, due to the severe economic conditions experienced in recent years, we adjusted our risk management program to place greater relative emphasis on the protection economic value. This shift in relative emphasis has resulted in greater U.S. GAAP earnings volatility and, based upon the types of hedging instruments used, can result in potentially material charges to net income (loss) in periods of rising equity market pricing levels, lower interest rates, rises in volatility and weakening of the yen against other currencies. While we believe that these actions have improved the efficiency of our risk management related to these benefits, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay and in turn may need additional capital to support in-force business. We are also subject to the risk that these management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed, which individually or collectively may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our valuations of many of our financial instruments include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The following financial instruments are carried at fair value in the Company's consolidated financial statements: fixed maturities, equity securities, freestanding and embedded derivatives, and separate account assets. The determination of fair values is made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. During periods of market disruption, including periods of rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the financial environment. In such cases, securities may require more subjectivity and management judgment in determining their fair values and those fair values may differ materially from the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing or unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 19Table of ContentsEvaluation of available-for-sale securities for other-than-temporary impairment involves subjective determinations and could materially impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The evaluation of impairments is a quantitative and qualitative process, which is subject to risks and uncertainties and is intended to determine whether a credit and/or non-credit impairment exists and whether an impairment should be recognized in current period earnings or in other comprehensive income. The risks and uncertainties include changes in general economic conditions, the issuer's financial condition or future recovery prospects, the effects of changes in interest rates or credit spreads and the expected recovery period. For securitized financial assets with contractual cash flows, the Company currently uses its best estimate of cash flows over the life of the security. In addition, estimating future cash flows involves incorporating information received from third-party sources and making internal assumptions and judgments regarding the future performance of the underlying collateral and assessing the probability that an adverse change in future cash flows has occurred. The determination of the amount of other-than-temporary impairments is based upon our quarterly evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Additionally, our management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses their best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Inherent in management's evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: •the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost or amortized cost;•changes in the financial condition, credit rating and near-term prospects of the issuer;•whether the issuer is current on contractually obligated interest and principal payments;•changes in the financial condition of the security's underlying collateral;•the payment structure of the security;•the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector;•the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations;•the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources;•unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities;•for mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, commercial and residential property value declines that vary by property type and location and average cumulative collateral loss rates that vary by vintage year;•other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies;•our intent to sell a debt or an equity security with debt-like characteristics (collectively, “debt security”) or whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery; and•our intent and ability to retain an equity security without debt-like characteristics for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value.Impairment losses in earnings could materially adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. Losses due to nonperformance or defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities (which include structured securities such as commercial mortgage backed securities and residential mortgage backed securities, European private and sovereign issuers, or other high yielding bonds) mortgage loans or reinsurance and derivative instrument counterparties, could have a material adverse effect on the value of our investments, business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Issuers or borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud, government intervention or other reasons. Such defaults could have a material adverse effect on the value of our investments, business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, the underlying assets supporting our structured securities or loans may deteriorate causing these securities or loans to incur losses. 20Table of ContentsOur investment portfolio includes securities backed by real estate assets the value of which have been adversely impacted by the recent recessionary period, high unemployment rates and the associated property value declines, ultimately resulting in a reduction in expected future cash flows for certain securities. The Company also has exposure to European based issuers of securities and providers of reinsurance, as well as indirect European exposure resulting from the variable annuity products that it has sold in Japan and the United Kingdom. Further details of the European private and sovereign issuers held within the investment portfolio and indirect variable annuity exposures can be found in Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management - Investment Portfolio Risks and Risk Management. The Company's European based reinsurance arrangements are further described in Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management - Investment Portfolio Risks and Risk Management - European Exposure. Further property value declines and loss rates that exceed our current estimates, as outlined in Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management - Other-Than-Temporary Impairments, or a worsening of global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. To the extent the investment portfolio is not adequately diversified, concentrations of credit risk may exist which could negatively impact the Company if significant adverse events or developments occur in any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic regions. The Company is not exposed to any credit concentration risk of a single issuer greater than 10% of the Company's stockholders' equity other than U.S. government and U.S. government agencies backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government, and the Government of Japan. However, if issuers of securities or loans we hold are acquired, merge or otherwise consolidate with other issuers of securities or loans held by the Company, the Company's credit concentration risk could increase above the 10% threshold, for a period of time, until the Company is able to sell securities to get back in compliance with the established investment credit policies. If assumptions used in estimating future gross profits differ from actual experience, we may be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC and increase reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Company deferred acquisition costs associated with the prior sales of its universal and variable life and variable annuity products. These costs are amortized over the expected life of the contracts. The remaining deferred but not yet amortized cost is referred to as the Deferred Acquisition Cost (“DAC”) asset. We amortize these costs in proportion to the present value of estimated gross profits (“EGPs”). The Company evaluates the EGPs compared to the DAC asset to determine if an impairment exists. The Company also establishes reserves for GMDB and GMIB using components of EGPs. The projection of EGPs, or components of EGPs, requires the use of certain assumptions, principally related to separate account fund returns in excess of amounts credited to policyholders, surrender and lapse rates, interest margin (including impairments), mortality, benefit utilization, annuitization and hedging costs. Of these factors, we anticipate that changes in investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. However, other factors such as those the Company might employ to reduce risk, such as the cost of hedging or other risk mitigating techniques, could also significantly reduce estimates of future gross profits. Estimating future gross profits is a complex process requiring considerable judgment and the forecasting of events well into the future. If our assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, including lapse rates, benefit utilization, surrenders, and annuitization, hedging costs or costs to employ other risk mitigating techniques prove to be inaccurate or if significant or sustained equity market declines occur, we could be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, and increase reserves for GMDB and GMIB which would result in a charge to net income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If our businesses do not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We test goodwill at least annually for impairment. Impairment testing is performed based upon estimates of the fair value of the “reporting unit” to which the goodwill relates. The reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below that operating segment if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business and could be adversely impacted by any efforts made by the Company to limit risk. If it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, the Company must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income (loss). These write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 21Table of ContentsDeferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. Factors in management's determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate capital gains, to offset previously recognized capital losses, from a variety of sources and tax planning strategies. If based on available information, it is more likely than not that we are unable to recognize a full tax benefit on realized capital losses, then a valuation allowance will be established with a corresponding charge to net income (loss). Charges to increase our valuation allowance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The occurrence of one or more terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve or the threat of terrorism in general may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The occurrence of one or more terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve could result in substantially higher claims under our insurance policies than we have anticipated. Private sector catastrophe reinsurance is extremely limited and generally unavailable for terrorism losses caused by attacks with nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological weapons. Reinsurance coverage from the federal government under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 (“TRIPRA”) is also limited. Although TRIPRA provides benefits in the event of certain acts of terrorism, those benefits are subject to a deductible and other limitations. Under TRIPRA, once our losses exceed 20% of our subject commercial property and casualty insurance premium for the preceding calendar year, the federal government will reimburse us for 85% of our losses attributable to certain acts of terrorism which exceed this deductible up to a total industry program cap of $100 billion. Our estimated deductible under the program is $1.2 billion for 2013. In addition, because the interpretation of this law is untested, there is substantial uncertainty as to how it will be applied to specific circumstances. It is also possible that future legislative action could change TRIPRA, which is due to expire at the end of 2014, unless extended.Accordingly, the effects of a terrorist attack in the geographic areas we serve may result in claims and related losses for which we do not have adequate reinsurance. This would likely cause us to increase our reserves, adversely affect our results during the period or periods affected and, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Further, the continued threat of terrorism and the occurrence of terrorist attacks, as well as heightened security measures and military action in response to these threats and attacks or other geopolitical or military crises, may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. These consequences could have an adverse effect on the value of the assets in our investment portfolio as well as those in our separate accounts. Terrorist attacks also could disrupt our operations centers in the U.S. or abroad. As a result, it is possible that any, or a combination of all, of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.It is difficult for us to predict our potential exposure for asbestos and environmental claims, and our ultimate liability may exceed our currently recorded reserves, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We continue to receive asbestos and environmental claims. Significant uncertainty limits the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related expenses for both environmental and particularly asbestos claims. For some asbestos and environmental claims, we believe that the actuarial tools and other techniques we employ to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional kinds of insurance exposure are less precise in estimating reserves for our asbestos and environmental exposures. Accordingly, the degree of variability of reserve estimates for these longer-tailed exposures is significantly greater than for other more traditional exposures. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their effect on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. Because of the significant uncertainties that limit the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related expenses for both environmental and particularly asbestos claims, the ultimate liabilities may exceed the currently recorded reserves. Increases in reserves would be recognized as an expense during the periods in which these determinations are made, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations for the related periods. Any such additional liability cannot be reasonably estimated now, but could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 22Table of ContentsWe may incur losses due to our reinsurers' unwillingness or inability to meet their obligations under reinsurance contracts and the availability, pricing and adequacy of reinsurance may not be sufficient to protect us against losses. As an insurer, we frequently seek to reduce the effect of losses that may arise from catastrophes to transfer other risks that can cause unfavorable results of operations, or to effect the sale of one line of business to an independent company through reinsurance. Under these reinsurance arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of our losses and related expenses; however, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Consequently, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims, and we are subject to our reinsurers' credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from them. Although we regularly evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers to minimize our exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies, our reinsurers may become financially unsound or choose to dispute their contractual obligations by the time their financial obligations become due. The inability or unwillingness of any reinsurer to meet its financial obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we are able to purchase. Historically, reinsurance pricing has changed significantly from time to time. No assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain continuously available to us to the same extent and on the same terms as are currently available. If we were unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient and at prices that we consider acceptable, we would have to either accept an increase in our net liability exposure, reduce the amount of business we write, or develop to the extent possible other alternatives to reinsurance. Further, due to the inherent uncertainties as to collection and the length of time before reinsurance recoverables will be due, it is possible that future adjustments to the Company’s reinsurance recoverables, net of the allowance, could be required, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarterly or annual period.Competitive activity may adversely affect our market share and financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The insurance industry is highly competitive. Our principal competitors are other property and casualty insurers, group benefits providers and mutual funds. Larger competitors may have lower operating costs and an ability to absorb greater risk while maintaining their financial strength ratings, thereby allowing them to price their products more competitively. These highly competitive pressures could result in increased pricing pressures on a number of our products and services and may harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. Because of the highly competitive nature of the insurance industry, there can be no assurance that we will continue to compete effectively with our industry rivals, or that competitive pressure will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may experience difficulty in marketing, distributing and providing investment advisory services in relation to our products through current and future distribution channels and advisory firms. We distribute our insurance products and mutual funds through a variety of distribution channels, including brokers, independent agents, broker-dealers, banks, wholesalers, affinity partners, our own internal sales force and other third-party organizations. In some areas of our business, we generate a significant portion of our business through or in connection with individual third-party arrangements. For example, we market our Consumer Markets products in part through an exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP that continues through January 2020. Our ability to distribute products through affinity partners may be adversely impacted by membership levels and the pace of membership growth. In December 2011, we entered into a 5-year agreement with Wellington Management Company as the preferred sub-advisor for The Hartford Mutual Funds. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. An interruption in our continuing relationship with certain of these third parties, including potentially as a result of a strategic transaction, could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  The impact of regulatory initiatives, including the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Regulatory developments relating to the recent financial crisis may significantly affect our operations and prospects in ways that we cannot predict. U.S. and overseas governmental and regulatory authorities, including the SEC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve"), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), the NYSE and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”) are considering enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or otherwise stabilize the institutions under their supervision. Such measures are likely to lead to stricter regulation of financial institutions generally, and heightened prudential requirements for systemically important companies in particular. Such measures could include taxation of financial transactions and restrictions on employee compensation. The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted on July 21, 2010, mandating changes to the regulation of the financial services industry. Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act is ongoing and may affect our operations and governance in ways that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 23Table of ContentsCertain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will require central clearing of, and/or impose new margin and capital requirements on, derivatives transactions, which we expect will increase the costs of our hedging program. Other provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that may impact us include: the new “Federal Insurance Office” within Treasury; the possible adverse impact on the pricing and liquidity of the securities in which we invest resulting from the proprietary trading and market making limitation of the Volcker Rule; the possible prohibition of certain asset-backed securities transactions that could adversely impact our ability to offer insurance-linked securities; and enhancements to corporate governance, especially regarding risk management. The Dodd-Frank Act vests the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) with the power to designate “systemically important” institutions, which will be subject to special regulatory supervision and other provisions intended to prevent, or mitigate the impact of, future disruptions in the U.S. financial system. Systemically important institutions are limited to large bank holding companies and nonbank financial companies that are so important that their potential failure could “pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.” The FSOC published a final rule setting forth the process they propose to follow when designating systemically important nonbank financial companies in April 2012. Based on its most current financial data, The Hartford is below the initial quantitative thresholds that will be used to determine which nonbank companies merit consideration. The FSOC has indicted it will review on a quarterly basis whether nonbank financial institutions meet the metrics for further review. If we are designated as a systemically important institution, we could be subject to higher capital requirements and additional regulatory oversight imposed by the Federal Reserve, as well as to post-event assessments imposed by the FDIC to recoup the costs associated with the orderly liquidation of other systemically important institutions in the event one or more such institutions fails. Further, in certain circumstances the FDIC is authorized to petition a state court to commence an insolvency proceeding to liquidate an insurance company that fails in the event the insurer's state regulator fails to act. If designated, we could also be subject to increased capital requirements or quantitative limits with respect to our sponsorship of and investments in private equity and hedge funds, which could limit our discretion in managing our general account. The Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule in December 2011 that would apply capital and liquidity requirements, single-counterparty credit limits, and stress testing and risk management requirements to systemically important institutions, and subject such institutions to an early remediation regime based on these requirements. The Federal Reserve has noted that they may tailor the application of the proposed rule to the particular attributes of systemically important nonbank financial companies. If The Hartford were to be designated as systemically important by the FSOC, these requirements could apply to The Hartford. However, it is not yet clear how or to what extent these requirements would be applied to systemically important nonbank financial companies.We may experience unfavorable judicial or legislative developments involving claim litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The Hartford is involved in claims litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, both as a liability insurer defending or providing indemnity for third-party claims brought against insureds and as an insurer defending coverage claims brought against it. The Hartford accounts for such activity through the establishment of unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. The Company is also involved in legal actions that do not arise in the ordinary course of business, some of which assert claims for substantial amounts. Pervasive or significant changes in the judicial environment relating to matters such as trends in the size of jury awards, developments in the law relating to the liability of insurers or tort defendants, and rulings concerning the availability or amount of certain types of damages could cause our ultimate liabilities to change from our current expectations. Changes in federal or state tort litigation laws or other applicable law could have a similar effect. It is not possible to predict changes in the judicial and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of the adequacy of our loss reserves, particularly reserves for longer-tailed lines of business, including asbestos and environmental reserves, and how those changes might adversely affect our ability to price our products appropriately. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could also be adversely affected if judicial or legislative developments cause our ultimate liabilities to increase from current expectations. 24Table of ContentsPotential changes in domestic and foreign regulation may increase our business costs and required capital levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to extensive U.S. and non-U.S. laws and regulations that are complex, subject to change and often conflicting in their approach or intended outcomes. Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and can affect our strategy, as well as the demand for and profitability of the products we offer. State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled, licensed or authorized to conduct business. U.S. state laws grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things: •licensing companies and agents to transact business;•calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements;•mandating certain insurance benefits;•regulating certain premium rates;•reviewing and approving policy forms;•regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements;•protecting privacy;•establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards;•fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts;•approving changes in control of insurance companies;•approving acquisitions, divestitures and similar transactions;•restricting the payment of dividends to the parent company and other transactions between affiliates;•establishing assessments and surcharges for guaranty funds, second-injury funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements;•requiring insurers to dividend any excess profits to policy holders; and•regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.In addition, future regulatory initiatives could be adopted at the federal or state level that could impact the profitability of our businesses. For example, the NAIC and state insurance regulators are continually reexamining existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to statutory accounting principles, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. The NAIC has undertaken a Solvency Modernization Initiative focused on updating the U.S. insurance solvency regulation framework, including capital requirements, governance and risk management, group supervision, accounting and financial reporting and reinsurance. Any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives, if adopted, may be more restrictive on our ability to conduct business than current regulatory requirements or may result in higher costs or increased statutory capital and reserve requirements.Further, because these laws and regulations are complex and sometimes inexact, there is also a risk that any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal, accounting, or reserving issue may change over time to our detriment, or expose us to different or additional regulatory risks. The application of these regulations and guidelines by insurers involves interpretations and judgments that may not be consistent with the opinion of state insurance departments. We cannot provide assurance that such differences of opinion will not result in regulatory, tax or other challenges to the actions we have taken to date. The result of those potential challenges could require us to increase levels of statutory capital and reserves or incur higher operating and/or tax costs. In addition, our international operations are subject to regulation in the relevant jurisdictions in which they operate (primarily the Japan Financial Services Agency, the Central Bank of Ireland and the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority), which in many ways is similar to the state regulation outlined above, with similar related restrictions and obligations. Our asset management businesses are also subject to extensive regulation in the various jurisdictions where they operate. 25Table of ContentsThese laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets or investment advisory clients and generally grant supervisory authorities broad administrative powers. Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly, time consuming and personnel intensive, and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. See the risk factor, “The impact of regulatory initiatives, including the enactment of The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.” Our ability to declare and pay dividends is subject to limitations. The payment of future dividends on our capital stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors, which considers, among other factors, our operating results, overall financial condition, credit-risk considerations and capital requirements, as well as general business and market conditions. Moreover, as a holding company that is separate and distinct from our insurance subsidiaries, we have no significant business operations of our own. Therefore, we rely on dividends from our insurance company subsidiaries and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash flow to meet our obligations. These obligations include payments on our debt securities and the payment of dividends on our capital stock. The Connecticut insurance holding company laws limit the payment of dividends by Connecticut-domiciled insurers. In addition, these laws require notice to and approval by the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment by those subsidiaries of any dividend which, together with other dividends or distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceeds the greater of: •10% of the insurer's policyholder surplus as of December 31 of the preceding year, or•net income, or net gain from operations if the subsidiary is a life insurance company, for the previous calendar year, in each case determined under statutory insurance accounting principles.In addition, if any dividend of a Connecticut-domiciled insurer exceeds the insurer's earned surplus, it requires the prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Commissioner. The insurance holding company laws of the other jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are incorporated, or deemed commercially domiciled, generally contain similar, and in some instances more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. Dividends paid to us by our insurance subsidiaries are further dependent on their cash requirements. For further discussion on dividends from insurance subsidiaries, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Capital Resources & Liquidity. Our rights to participate in any distribution of the assets of any of our subsidiaries, for example, upon their liquidation or reorganization, and the ability of holders of our common stock to benefit indirectly from a distribution, are subject to the prior claims of creditors of the applicable subsidiary, except to the extent that we may be a creditor of that subsidiary. Claims on these subsidiaries by persons other than us include, as of December 31, 2012, claims by policyholders for benefits payable amounting to $111.9 billion, claims by separate account holders of $141.6 billion, and other liabilities including claims of trade creditors, claims from guaranty associations and claims from holders of debt obligations, amounting to $14.4 billion. Holders of our capital stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Moreover, our common stockholders are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of our preferred stock or depositary shares representing such preferred stock then outstanding. As of December 31, 2012, there were 575,000 shares of our Series F Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. Under the terms of the Series F Preferred Stock, our ability to declare and pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock will be subject to restrictions in the event we fail to declare and pay (or set aside for payment) full dividends on the Series F Preferred Stock. The terms of our outstanding junior subordinated debt securities also prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on our capital stock or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if we have given notice of our election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. 26Table of ContentsIf we are unable to maintain the availability of our systems and safeguard the security of our data due to the occurrence of disasters or a cyber or other information security incident, our ability to conduct business may be compromised, we may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We use computer systems to process, store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer and company data and information. Our computer, information technology and telecommunications systems, in turn, interface with and rely upon third-party systems or third-parties firms to maintain our systems. Our business is highly dependent on our ability, and the ability of certain third parties, to access these systems to perform necessary business functions, including, without limitation, conducting our financial reporting and analysis, providing insurance quotes, processing premium payments, making changes to existing policies, filing and paying claims, administering variable annuity products and mutual funds, providing customer support and managing our investment portfolios and hedging programs. Systems failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform our business functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business and hurt our relationships with our business partners and customers. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, a pandemic, an industrial accident, a blackout, a terrorist attack or war, systems upon which we rely may be inaccessible to our employees, customers or business partners for an extended period of time. Even if our employees and business partners are able to report to work, they may be unable to perform their duties for an extended period of time if our data or systems used to conduct our business are disabled or destroyed. Moreover, our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer related penetrations. While, to date, The Hartford has not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity, administrative and technical controls as well as other preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, denial of service and other cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. Such an event could compromise our confidential information as well as that of our clients and third parties with whom we interact, impede or interrupt our business operations and may result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, loss of revenue, additional regulatory scrutiny and litigation and reputational damage. In addition, we routinely transmit, receive and store personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. Although we attempt to keep such information confidential, we may be unable to utilize such capabilities in all events, especially with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties who may not have or use appropriate controls to protect confidential information. Furthermore, certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments, the European Union, Japan or other jurisdictions or enacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees or others. A misuse or mishandling of confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from an employee or third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. Third parties to whom we outsource certain of our functions are also subject to the risks outlined above, any one of which may result in our incurring substantial costs and other negative consequences, including a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. While we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides both third party liability and first party insurance coverages, our insurance may not be sufficient to protect against all loss. Our framework for managing operational risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us that could adversely affect our businesses. Our business performance is highly dependent on our ability to manage operational risks that arise from a large number of day-to-day business activities, including insurance underwriting, claims processing, servicing, investment, financial and tax reporting, compliance with regulatory requirements and other activities, many of which are very complex and for some of which we rely on third parties. We seek to monitor and control our exposure to risks arising out of these activities through a risk control framework encompassing a variety of reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. We cannot be completely confident that these processes and procedures will effectively control all known risks or effectively identify unforeseen risks, or that our employees and third-party agents will effectively implement them. Management of operational risks can fail for a number of reasons, including design failure, systems failure, failures to perform, cyber security attacks, human error, or unlawful activities on the part of employees or third parties. In the event that our controls are not effective or not properly implemented, we could suffer financial or other loss, disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. Losses resulting from these failures can vary significantly in size, scope and scale and may have material adverse effects on our financial condition or results of operations. 27Table of ContentsIf we experience difficulties arising from outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct business may be compromised, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As we continue to focus on reducing the expense necessary to support our operations, we have become increasingly committed to outsourcing strategies for certain technology and business functions. If third-party providers experience disruptions or do not perform as anticipated, or we experience problems with a transition, we may experience operational difficulties, an inability to meet obligations, including, but not limited to, policyholder obligations, increased costs and a loss of business that may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For other risks associated with our outsourcing of certain functions, see the risk factor, “If we are unable to maintain the availability of our systems and safeguard the security of our data due to the occurrence of disasters or a cyber or other information security incident, our ability to conduct business may be compromised, we may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and liquidity.”  Changes in federal or state tax laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Changes in federal or state tax laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. For instance, the steps taken by the federal government to avoid automatic tax increases and spending cuts that would have gone into effect on January 1, 2013 will result in higher tax rates, including for many small business owners who are already preparing for increased costs associated with healthcare reform. This may cause small businesses to hire fewer workers and decrease investment in their businesses, including purchasing vehicles, property and equipment, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Conversely, if income tax rates decline it could adversely affect the Company's ability to realize the benefits of its deferred tax assets.Many of the products that the Company previously sold benefit from one or more forms of tax-favored status under current federal and state income tax regimes. For example, the Company previously sold individual life insurance policies that benefit from the deferral or elimination of taxation on earnings accrued under the policy, as well as permanent exclusion of certain death benefits that may be paid to policyholders' beneficiaries. We also sold annuity contracts that allowed policyholders to defer the recognition of taxable income earned within the contract. The Company also benefits from certain tax items, including but not limited to, tax-exempt bond interest, dividends received deductions, tax credits (such as foreign tax credits), and insurance reserve deductions. Because the Company no longer sells individual life insurance, changes in the future taxation of life insurance and/or annuity contracts will not adversely impact future sales. If, however, the treatment of earnings accrued inside a life or annuity contract was changed prospectively, and the taxation of current contracts was grandfathered, it would make running off our existing annuity business more difficult. Furthermore, changes to the taxation of tax exempt bonds could limit our investment choices and depress portfolio yields. Lastly, there could be changes in the taxation of reserving methodologies for P&C companies that could increase our taxes. Due in large part to the recent financial crisis that has affected many governments, there is an increasing risk that federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted that would result in higher taxes on insurance companies and/or their policyholders. For example, the Obama Administration proposed federal budget released in February 2012 entitled FY 2013, Budget of the United States Government included among many other proposals, a proposal which, if enacted, would have adversely affected the amount of the dividends received deduction the Company currently enjoys. If this proposal were included in the federal budget proposal for FY 2014 and subsequently enacted, the Company's actual tax expense could increase, reducing earnings. Although the specific form of FY 2014 budget and any related legislation is uncertain, any such legislation could include provisions that lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company and/or its policyholders or not provide for grandfathering the current tax treatment of existing life and annuity products. This could occur in the context of deficit reduction or other tax reform. The effects of any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition, and could result in lapses of policies currently held, and/or our incurrence of materially higher corporate taxes.28Table of ContentsRegulatory requirements could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. Before a person can acquire control of a U.S. insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance commissioner of the state where the domestic insurer is domiciled. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer, the state insurance commissioner will consider such factors as the financial strength of the applicant, the acquirer's plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer, and any such additional information as the insurance commissioner may deem necessary or appropriate for the protection of policyholders or in the public interest. Generally, state statutes provide that control over a domestic insurer is presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing 10 percent or more of the voting securities of the domestic insurer or its parent company. Because a person acquiring 10 percent or more of our Common Stock would indirectly control the same percentage of the stock of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, the insurance change of control laws of various U.S. jurisdictions would likely apply to such a transaction. Other laws or required approvals pertaining to one or more of our existing subsidiaries, or a future subsidiary, may contain similar or additional restrictions on the acquisition of control of the Company. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change of control, including transactions that our Board of Directors and some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable.Changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements could result in material changes to our reported results and financial condition. U.S. GAAP and related financial reporting requirements are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by the relevant authoritative bodies. Such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. Changes in U.S. GAAP and financial reporting requirements, or in the interpretation of U.S. GAAP or those requirements, could result in material changes to our reported results and financial condition. Moreover, the SEC is currently evaluating International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) to determine whether IFRS should be incorporated into the financial reporting system for U.S. issuers. Certain of these standards could result in material changes to our reported results of operation. In connection with the restatement of our results for the three and nine month period ended September 30, 2012, we identified a material weakness, since remediated, in our internal control over financial reporting and an ineffectiveness in our disclosure controls and procedures. Future material weaknesses could lead to errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or untimely filings, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, and a decline in our stock price and that of our other securities.In connection with the restatement of our results for the three and nine month period ended September 30, 2012 and the filing of an amendment to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for such period, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and that our disclosure controls for that same period were ineffective. We have since remediated such material weakness in internal control over financial reporting and in our disclosure controls and procedures, and as of December 31, 2012, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective within the meaning of Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e) and that our internal control over financial reporting was effective, taking into account the steps taken to address such material weakness. Further material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting or ineffectiveness in disclosure controls and procedures could result in errors in our financial statements or untimely filings, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, and a decline in our stock price and that of our other securities.We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we use a broad range of measures to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which represents a diversion of resources that may be significant in amount and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce the protection of our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. We also may be subject to costly litigation in the event that another party alleges our operations or activities infringe upon another party's intellectual property rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that could be infringed by our products, methods, processes or services. Any party that holds such a patent could make a claim of infringement against us. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark, trade secret or license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed a third-party patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial liability, and in some circumstances could be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses, or alternatively could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS