Item 1A. Risk Factors, in Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and those identified from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. •Risks Relating to Economic, Market and Political Conditions:◦challenges related to the Company’s current operating environment, including global political, economic and market conditions, and the effect of financial market disruptions, economic downturns or other potentially adverse macroeconomic developments on the attractiveness of our products, the returns in our investment portfolios and the hedging costs associated with our runoff annuity block;◦financial risk related to the continued reinvestment of our investment portfolios and performance of our hedge program for our runoff annuity block;◦market risks associated with our business, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, market volatility and foreign exchange rates, commodities prices and implied volatility levels.◦the impact on our investment portfolio if our investment portfolio is concentrated in any particular segment of the economy;•Risks Relating to Estimates, Assumptions and Valuations:◦risk associated with the use of analytical models in making decisions in key areas such as underwriting, capital management, hedging, reserving, and catastrophe risk management; ◦the potential for differing interpretations of the methodologies, estimations and assumptions that underlie the valuation of the Company’s financial instruments that could result in changes to investment valuations;◦the subjective determinations that underlie the Company’s evaluation of other-than-temporary impairments on available-for-sale securities;◦the potential for further acceleration of deferred policy acquisition cost amortization;◦the potential for further impairments of our goodwill or the potential for changes in valuation allowances against deferred tax assets;◦the significant uncertainties that limit our ability to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for asbestos and environmental claims;•Financial Strength, Credit and Counterparty Risks:◦the impact on our statutory capital of various factors, including many that are outside the Company’s control, which can in turn affect our credit and financial strength ratings, cost of capital, regulatory compliance and other aspects of our business and results;◦risks to our business, financial position, prospects and results associated with negative rating actions or downgrades in the Company’s financial strength and credit ratings or negative rating actions or downgrades relating to our investments;◦losses due to nonperformance or defaults by others, including sourcing partners, derivative counterparties and other third parties;◦the potential for losses due to our reinsurers' unwillingness or inability to meet their obligations under reinsurance contracts and the availability, pricing and adequacy of reinsurance to protect the Company against losses;•Insurance Industry and Product-Related Risks:◦the possibility of unfavorable loss development, including with respect to long-tailed exposures;◦the possibility of a pandemic, earthquake, or other natural or man-made disaster that may adversely affect our businesses;3◦weather and other natural physical events, including the severity and frequency of storms, hail, winter storms, hurricanes and tropical storms, as well as climate change and its potential impact on weather patterns;◦the possible occurrence of terrorist attacks and the Company’s inability to contain its exposure as a result of, among other factors, the inability to exclude coverage for terrorist attacks from workers' compensation policies and limitations on reinsurance coverage from the federal government under applicable laws;◦the uncertain effects of emerging claim and coverage issues;◦actions by competitors that may be larger or have greater financial resources than we do;◦technological changes, such as usage-based methods of determining premiums, advancements in automotive safety features, the development of autonomous vehicles, and platforms that facilitate ride sharing, which may alter demand for the Company's products, impact the frequency or severity of losses, and/or impact the way the Company markets, distributes and underwrites its products; ◦the Company's ability to market, distribute and provide insurance products and investment advisory services through current and future distribution channels and advisory firms;◦the Company’s ability to effectively price its property and casualty policies, including its ability to obtain regulatory consents to pricing actions or to non-renewal or withdrawal of certain product lines;◦volatility in our statutory and United States ("U.S.") GAAP earnings and potential material changes to our results resulting from our risk management program to emphasize protection of economic value;•Regulatory and Legal Risks:◦the cost and other effects of increased regulation as a result of the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, and the potential effect of other domestic and foreign regulatory developments, including those that could adversely impact the demand for the Company’s products, operating costs and required capital levels;◦unfavorable judicial or legislative developments;◦regulatory limitations on the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries to declare and pay dividends;◦the impact of changes in federal or state tax laws;◦regulatory requirements that could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests;◦the impact of potential changes in accounting principles and related financial reporting requirements;•Other Strategic and Operational Risks:◦risks associated with the runoff of our Talcott Resolution business;◦the risks, challenges and uncertainties associated with our capital management plan, including as a result of changes in our financial position and earnings, share price, capital position, legal restrictions, other investment opportunities, and other factors;◦the risks, challenges and uncertainties associated with our expense reduction initiatives and other actions, which may include acquisitions, divestitures or restructurings;◦the Company’s ability to maintain the availability of its systems and safeguard the security of its data in the event of a disaster, cyber or other information security incident or other unanticipated event;◦the risk that our framework for managing operational risks may not be effective in mitigating material risk and loss to the Company;◦the potential for difficulties arising from outsourcing and similar third-party relationships; and◦the Company’s ability to protect its intellectual property and defend against claims of infringement.Any forward-looking statement made by the Company in this document speaks only as of the date of the filing of this Form 10-K. Factors or events that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Company to predict all of them. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.4PART IItem 1. BUSINESS(Dollar amounts in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise stated)GeneralThe Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “The Hartford”, the “Company”, “we”, or “our”) is a holding company for a group of subsidiaries that provide property and casualty insurance, group benefits and mutual funds to individual and business customers in the United States and continues to administer life and annuity products previously sold. The Hartford is headquartered in Connecticut and its oldest subsidiary, Hartford Fire Insurance Company, dates to 1810. At December 31, 2015, total assets and total stockholders’ equity of The Hartford were $228 billion and $17.6 billion, respectively.OrganizationThe Hartford strives to maintain and enhance its position as a market leader within the financial services industry. The Company sells diverse and innovative products through multiple distribution channels to individuals and businesses. The Company seeks on an ongoing basis to develop and expand its distribution channels, achieving cost efficiencies through economies of scale and investments in technology, and capitalize on the strength of its brand, including The Hartford Stag logo, one of the most recognized symbols in the financial services industry.As a holding company, The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. is separate and distinct from its subsidiaries and has no significant business operations of its own. Therefore, it relies on the dividends from its insurance companies and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash flow to meet its obligations, pay dividends and repurchase common stock. Information regarding the cash flow and liquidity needs of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. may be found in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) — Capital Resources and Liquidity. Reporting SegmentsThe Hartford conducts business principally in six reporting segments including Commercial Lines, Personal Lines, Property & Casualty Other Operations, Group Benefits, Mutual Funds and Talcott Resolution, as well as a Corporate category. The Hartford includes in its Corporate category the Company’s capital raising activities (including debt financing and related interest expense), purchase accounting adjustments related to goodwill and other expenses not allocated to the reporting segments.The following discussion describes the principal products and services, marketing and distribution, and competition of The Hartford's reporting segments. For further discussion of the reporting segments, including financial disclosures of revenues by product line, net income (loss), and assets for each reporting segment, see Note 3 - Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Commercial LinesPrincipal Products and ServicesCommercial Lines provides workers’ compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella, marine and livestock insurance products to businesses, primarily throughout the United States. The Commercial Lines segment includes three lines of business: small commercial; middle market; and specialty. The majority of Commercial Lines written premium is generated by small commercial and middle market, which provide coverage options and customized pricing based on the policyholder’s individualized risk characteristics. Specialty provides a variety of customized insurance products and services including workers’ compensation, automobile, general liability, professional liability, bond, and specialty casualty coverages.Small commercial provides workers' compensation, automobile, property and liability coverages for small businesses. The Company considers small businesses those with annual payroll under $12, revenues under $25 and property values less than $20 per location. Property and liability coverages are offered as part of a single package policy, marketed under the Spectrum name. Middle market provides medium-sized businesses, which are companies whose payroll, revenue and property values exceed the small business definition, with workers’ compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella, marine and livestock coverages.Within specialty, a significant portion of the business is written through large deductible programs for national accounts. The business also provides retrospectively-rated programs where the premiums are adjustable based on loss experience. The financial products business provides management and professional liability products including D&O (directors and officers) and E&O (errors and omissions) insurance. The bond business provides businesses with contract surety bonds, commercial surety and fidelity coverage. The captive programs business provides tailored programs primarily to customers with common risk characteristics and those seeking a loss sensitive solution.5Marketing and DistributionCommercial Lines provide insurance products and services through the Company’s domestic offices and insurance centers. The products are marketed nationally utilizing independent agents, brokers and wholesalers. The independent agent and broker distribution channel is consolidating and this trend is expected to continue. This will likely result in a larger proportion of written premium being concentrated among fewer agents and brokers. In addition, the Company offers insurance products to customers of payroll service providers through its relationships with major national payroll companies and to members of affinity organizations.CompetitionIn small commercial, The Hartford competes against large national carriers, as well as regional carriers in certain territories. Competitors include stock companies, mutual companies and other underwriting organizations. The small commercial market is competitive as carriers seek to differentiate themselves through product expansion, price reduction, enhanced service and cutting-edge technology. Larger carriers such as The Hartford have improved their pricing sophistication and ease of doing business with agents and customers through the use of technology, analytics and other capabilities that improve the process of evaluating a risk, quoting new business and servicing customers. The Company is also adding to its digital capabilities as customers and distributors demand more access and convenience, and expanding product and underwriting capabilities to accommodate both larger accounts and a broader risk appetite. Written premium growth rates have been low for the insurance industry in the small commercial market due to weak economic conditions. This has put pressure on underwriting margins as competitors seek new business by increasing their underwriting appetite, and deepening their relationships with distribution partners. Also, carriers serving middle market-sized accounts are more aggressively competing for small commercial accounts, which are generally less price-sensitive.Middle market business is considered “high touch” and involves individualized underwriting and pricing decisions. The pricing of middle market accounts is prone to significant variation or cyclicality over time due to changes in individual account characteristics and exposure, as well as legislative and macro-economic forces. In addition, various state legislative reforms in recent years designed to control workers compensation indemnity costs have led to rate reductions in many states. These factors, characterized by highly competitive pricing on new business, have resulted in more customers shopping their policies for a lower price. In the face of this competitive environment, The Hartford is working to deepen its product and underwriting capabilities, and leverage its sales and underwriting talent with tools it has introduced in recent years. Through advanced training and analytics, the Company’s field underwriters are working to improve risk selection and pricing decisions. In product development, and related areas such as claims and risk engineering, the Company is extending its capabilities in industry verticals, such as construction, auto parts manufacturing and hospitality. The Company has also added new middle market underwriters into the Midwest and Western U.S. to deepen relationships with its distribution partners.Specialty competes on an account- by-account basis due to the complex nature of each transaction. Competition in this market includes stock companies, mutual companies, alternative risk sharing groups and other underwriting organizations. The Hartford’s relatively large size and underwriting capacity is a competitive advantage over smaller insurance companies.For specialty casualty businesses, written pricing competition continues to be significant, particularly for the larger individual accounts. Carriers are aggressively negotiating renewals with customers by initiating the process in advance of the policy renewal date to improve retention and reduce new business opportunities for competitors. As written pricing increases, more insureds may opt for the loss-sensitive products offered in our national accounts segment, including retrospectively rated contracts, in lieu of guaranteed cost policies. Within national accounts, the Company is planning to introduce a new risk management platform, allowing customers better access to claim data and other information needed by corporate risk managers. This investment will allow the Company to work more closely with customers to improve long-term account performance.In the bond business, favorable underwriting results in recent years have led to increased competition for market share, setting the stage for potential written price decreases. Public construction project work has slowed, resulting in only modest growth for Contract Surety business.In professional liability, large and medium-sized businesses are in differing competitive environments. Large public D&O, specifically excess layers, is under significant competitive price pressure. The middle market private management liability segment is in a more stable competitive and pricing environment.6Personal LinesPrincipal Products and ServicesPersonal Lines provides automobile, homeowners and personal umbrella coverages to individuals across the United States, including a program designed exclusively for members of AARP (“AARP Program”). The Hartford's auto and homeowners products provide coverage options and pricing tailored to a customer's individual risk. The Hartford has individual customer relationships with AARP Program policyholders and, as a group, they represent a significant portion of the total Personal Lines' business. Business sold to AARP members, either direct or through independent agents, amounted to earned premiums of $3.2 billion, $3.0 billion and $2.9 billion in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. During 2015, Personal Lines completed the rollout of its new auto product, Open Road, which is now available in 44 states. The Open Road product increases pricing flexibility and market responsiveness, and continues to be refined based on experience. In addition, Personal Lines has rolled out its telematics program, TrueLane, to more states, and the program is currently available to customers in 44 states in both the direct and independent agent channels.Marketing and DistributionPersonal Lines reaches diverse customers through multiple distribution channels, including direct-to-consumer and independent agents. In direct-to-consumer, Personal Lines markets its products through a mix of media, including direct mail, digital marketing, television and advertising, both digitally and in publications. Through the agency channel, Personal Lines provides products and services to customers through a network of independent agents in the standard personal lines market, primarily serving mature, preferred consumers. These independent agents are not employees of the Company.Personal Lines has made significant investments in offering direct and agency-based customers the opportunity to interact with the company online, including via mobile devices. In addition, its technology platform for telephone sales centers enables sales representatives to provide an enhanced customer experience, positioning The Hartford to offer unique capabilities to AARP’s member base.Most of Personal Lines' sales are associated with its exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP, with the current agreement in place through January 1, 2023, to market automobile, homeowners and personal umbrella coverages to AARP's nearly 38 million members, either direct or through independent agents. This agreement provides Personal Lines with an important competitive advantage given the expected growth of the population of those over age 50 and the strength of the AARP brand. The Company has expanded its relationship with AARP to provide its industry-leading small business products offered by Commercial Lines to AARP members who are small business owners.In addition to selling product through its relationship with AARP, Personal Lines sells products to non-AARP customers, primarily through the independent agent channel and within select underwriting markets where we believe we have a competitive advantage.CompetitionThe personal lines automobile and homeowners insurance markets are highly competitive. Personal lines insurance is written by insurance companies of varying sizes that compete on the basis of price, product, service (including claims handling), stability of the insurer and brand recognition. Companies with recognized brands, direct sales capability and economies of scale will have a competitive advantage. In recent years, a number of carriers have increased their advertising in an effort to gain new business and retain profitable business. This has been particularly true of carriers that sell directly to the consumer. Industry sales of personal lines insurance direct to the consumer have been growing faster than sales through agents, particularly for auto insurance.Carriers that distribute products mainly through agents compete by offering agents commissions and additional incentives to attract new business. To distinguish themselves in the marketplace, top tier carriers are offering online and self service capabilities to agents and consumers. A large majority of agents have been using “comparative rater” tools that allow the agent to compare premium quotes among several insurance companies. The use of comparative rater tools increases price competition. Carriers that are able to differentiate their offering and work with agents to identify value beyond price are more likely to be successful in this market.The use of data mining and predictive modeling is used by more and more carriers to target the most profitable business, and carriers have further segmented their pricing plans to expand market share in what they believe to be the most profitable segments. Some companies, such as The Hartford, have written a greater percentage of their new business in preferred market segments. Such segments tend to have better loss experience but also have lower average premiums. Also, new auto technology advancements — including lane departure warnings, backup cameras, automatic braking and active collision alerts — are being deployed rapidly and are expected to improve driver safety and reduce the likelihood of vehicle collisions. The Hartford is one of the first companies to introduce a vehicle safety discount to consumers whose vehicle is equipped with new safety-promoting technology.7In Personal Lines, the Company is investing in capabilities to better utilize data and analytics, and thereby, refine and manage underwriting and pricing. The Company is also working to maximize the value of its long-term partnership with AARP. Investments in digital tools, contact center capabilities and direct marketing efficiencies are designed to attract and retain more AARP members. The Hartford will leverage its agency channel to target AARP members and other customer segments that value the expertise of agents who actively seek the benefits of The Hartford's product suite and who value its service model.Group BenefitsPrincipal Products and ServicesGroup Benefits provides group life, accident and disability coverage and group retiree health benefits to members of employer groups, associations, and affinity groups. In addition to employer paid coverages, Group Benefits offers voluntary product coverages including accident, life, disability and critical illness coverages through employee payroll deductions. Group Benefits also offers disability underwriting, administration, claims processing and reinsurance to other insurers and self-funded employer plans. In addition, Group Benefits offers a single-company leave management solution, The Hartford Productivity Advantage, which integrates work absence data from the insurer’s short-term and long-term group disability and workers’ compensation insurance with its leave management administration services.Group Benefits generally offers term insurance policies, allowing for the adjustment of rates or policy terms in order to minimize the adverse effect of market trends, declining interest rates, and other factors. Policies are typically sold with one, two or three-year rate guarantees depending upon the product and market segment. Marketing and DistributionThe Group Benefits distribution network is managed through a regional sales office system, to distribute its group insurance products and services through a variety of distribution outlets including brokers, consultants, third-party administrators and trade associations. Additionally, Group Benefits has relationships with several private exchanges which offer Group Benefits products to employer groups.CompetitionGroup Benefits competes with numerous insurance companies and financial intermediaries marketing insurance products. This line of business focuses on both its risk management expertise and economies of scale to derive a competitive advantage. Competitive factors affecting Group Benefits include the variety and quality of products and services offered, the price quoted for coverage and services, the Company’s relationships with its third-party distributors and private exchanges, and the quality of customer service. In addition, active price competition continues in the marketplace resulting in multi-year rate guarantees being offered to customers. Top tier carriers in the marketplace also offer on-line and self service capabilities to agents and consumers. The relatively large size and underwriting capacity of the Group Benefits business provides a competitive advantage over smaller companies. Additionally, as employers continue to focus on reducing the cost of employee benefits, the shift to employee paid products will become greater. Competitive factors affecting the sale of voluntary products include the breadth of products, product education, enrollment capabilities, and overall customer service.In Group Benefits, the Company is working to grow revenue from both its employer group product offerings as well as its voluntary product suite, which includes Disability FLEX, critical illness, and accident coverages. The Company's enhanced enrollment and marketing tools help individual participants make sound decisions for their unique benefit needs.Mutual FundsPrincipal Products and ServicesMutual Funds provides investment management, administration, distribution and related services to investors through investment products in both domestic and international markets, and is separated into two distinct asset categories referred to as Mutual Fund assets under management and Talcott assets under management. Mutual Fund assets under management includes equity, fixed income, alternative and asset allocation investment products that are actively sold primarily through retail, bank trust and registered investment advisor channels. Talcott assets under management represents those assets held in separate accounts supporting legacy runoff Hartford variable insurance products.Marketing and DistributionThe Mutual Funds distribution team is organized to sell across a variety of channels including national and regional broker-dealer organizations, independent financial advisors, defined contribution plans, consultants, record keepers, bank trust groups, and registered investment advisors.CompetitionMutual Funds competes with other mutual fund companies and investment brokerage companies and differentiates itself through fund performance, product innovation and solutions, and service.8Talcott Resolution Talcott Resolution is comprised of the runoff of the Company's U.S. annuity, institutional and private-placement life insurance businesses, and the retained yen denominated fixed payout annuity liabilities. Talcott Resolution's mission is to efficiently manage the runoff of the business while honoring the Company's obligations to its contractholders. Talcott Resolution manages approximately 852 thousand annuity contracts with account value of approximately $67 billion and private placement life insurance with account value of approximately $40 billion as of December 31, 2015.The Talcott Resolution business segment also includes our Retirement Plans and Individual Life businesses sold in 2013 through reinsurance agreements with the respective buyers. In 2014, the Company completed the sale of Hartford Life Insurance KK, a Japanese company ("HLIKK"). In addition, the Company completed the sale of its U.K. annuity business in 2013. For further discussion of these transactions, see Note 18 - Discontinued Operations and Business Dispositions of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.ReservesThe Hartford establishes and carries as liabilities reserves for its insurance products to estimate for the following:•a liability for unpaid losses, including those that have been incurred but not yet reported, as well as estimates of all expenses associated with processing and settling these claims;•a liability equal to the balance that accrues to the benefit of the life and annuity insurance policyholder as of the consolidated financial statement date, otherwise known as the account value;•a liability for future policy benefits, representing the present value of future benefits to be paid to or on behalf of policyholders less the present value of future net premiums;•fair value reserves for living benefits embedded derivative guarantees; and•death and living benefit reserves which are computed based on a percentage of revenues less actual claim costs.Further discussion of The Hartford’s property and casualty insurance product reserves, including asbestos and environmental claims reserves, may be found in Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Critical Accounting Estimates — Property and Casualty Insurance Product Reserves, Net of Reinsurance. Additional discussion may be found in the Company’s accounting policies for insurance product reserves within Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.ReinsuranceThe Hartford cedes insurance to affiliated and unaffiliated insurers for both its property and casualty and life insurance products. Such arrangements do not relieve The Hartford of its primary liability to policyholders. Failure of reinsurers to honor their obligations could result in losses to The Hartford. For further discussion of reinsurance, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management and Note 5 - Reinsurance of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.For property and casualty insurance products, reinsurance arrangements are intended to provide greater diversification of business and limit The Hartford’s maximum net loss arising from large risks or catastrophes. A major portion of The Hartford’s property and casualty insurance product reinsurance is effected under general reinsurance contracts known as treaties, or, in some instances, is negotiated on an individual risk basis, known as facultative reinsurance. The Hartford also has in-force excess of loss contracts with reinsurers that protect it against a specified part or all of a layer of losses over stipulated amounts. For life insurance products, The Hartford is involved in both the cession and assumption of insurance with other insurance and reinsurance companies. The Company has ceded reinsurance in connection with the sales of its Retirement Plans and Individual Life businesses in 2013. For further discussion of these transactions, see Note 18 - Discontinued Operations and Business Dispositions of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the Company has reinsured to third parties a portion of the risk associated with U.S. individual variable annuities and the associated guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”) and guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (“GMWB”) riders.9Investment OperationsThe majority of the Company’s investment portfolios are managed by Hartford Investment Management Company (“HIMCO”). HIMCO manages the portfolios to maximize economic value, and generate the returns necessary to support the Company’s various product obligations, within internally established objectives, guidelines and risk tolerances. The portfolio objectives and guidelines are developed based upon the asset/liability profile, including duration, convexity and other characteristics within specified risk tolerances. The risk tolerances considered include, for example, asset sector, credit issuer allocation limits, and maximum portfolio limits for below investment grade holdings. The Company attempts to minimize adverse impacts to the portfolio and the Company’s results of operations from changes in economic conditions through asset diversification, asset allocation limits, asset/liability duration matching and through the use of derivatives. For further discussion of HIMCO’s portfolio management approach, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management.In addition to managing the general account assets of the Company, HIMCO is also a SEC registered investment adviser for a variable insurance trust and third party institutional clients, a sub-advisor for certain mutual funds and serves as the sponsor and collateral manager for capital markets transactions. HIMCO specializes in investment management that incorporates proprietary research and active portfolio management within a disciplined risk framework that seeks to provide value added returns versus peers and benchmarks. In January 2016, HIMCO announced the decision to no longer pursue new business in institutional separate accounts. The change is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the fair value of HIMCO’s total assets under management was approximately $102.9 billion and $109.5 billion, respectively, of which $5.4 billion and $6.2 billion, respectively, were held in HIMCO managed third party accounts.Enterprise Risk ManagementThe Company has an enterprise risk management function (“ERM”) that is charged with providing analysis of the Company's risks on an individual and aggregated basis and with ensuring that the Company's risks remain within its risk appetite and tolerances. ERM plays an integral role at The Hartford by fostering a strong risk management culture and discipline. The mission of ERM is to support the Company in achieving its strategic priorities by:•Providing a comprehensive view of the risks facing the Company, including risk concentrations and correlations;•Helping management define the Company's overall capacity and appetite for risk by evaluating the risk/return profile of the business relative to the Company's strategic intent and financial underpinning;•Assisting management in setting specific risk tolerances and limits that are measurable, actionable, and comply with the Company's overall risk philosophy;•Communicating and monitoring the Company's risk exposures relative to set limits and recommending, or implementing as appropriate, mitigating strategies; and•Providing insight to assist leaders in growing the businesses and achieving optimal risk-adjusted returns within established guidelines.Enterprise Risk Management Structure and GovernanceAt The Hartford, the Board of Directors (“the Board”) has ultimate responsibility for risk oversight. It exercises its oversight function through its standing committees, each of which has primary risk oversight responsibility with respect to all matters within the scope of its duties as contemplated by its charter. In addition, the Finance, Investment and Risk Management Committee (“FIRMCo”), which is comprised of all members of the Board, has responsibility for the oversight of the investment, financial, and risk management activities of the Company, except as otherwise provided in the Company Governance Guidelines. The oversight of all risk exposures includes, but is not limited to: •Market risk, including credit, interest rate, equity market, and foreign exchange;•Liquidity and capital requirements of the Company; •Insurance risks, including those arising out of catastrophes and acts of terrorism; •Cybersecurity risk; and •Any other risk that poses a material threat to the strategic viability of the Company.The Audit Committee is responsible for, among other things, discussing with management policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management.10At the corporate level, the Company's Enterprise Chief Risk Officer (“Chief Risk Officer”) leads ERM. The Chief Risk Officer reports directly to the Company's Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”). The Company has established the Enterprise Risk and Capital Committee (“ERCC”) that includes the Company’s CEO, President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Investment Officer, Chief Risk Officer, General Counsel and others as deemed necessary by the committee chair. The ERCC oversees the risk profile and risk management practices of the Company. The ERCC also oversees capital management and the allocation of capital to the lines of business. The ERCC is responsible for significant company-wide risk exposures including, but not limited to, financial risk, liquidity and capital requirements, insurance risk, operational risks, and any other risk deemed significant. The ERCC reports to the Board primarily through the FIRMCo and through interactions with the Audit Committee.The Company also has committees that manage specific risks and recommend risk mitigation strategies to the ERCC. These committees include, but are not limited to, Asset Liability Committees, Catastrophe Risk Committee, Emerging Risk Committees, Model Oversight Committees and the Operational Risk Committee.Risk Management FrameworkAt the Company, risk is managed at multiple levels. The Hartford utilizes three lines of defense in risk management to integrate its risk management strategy and appetite into all areas of the Company. The first line of defense in risk management is generally the responsibility of the lines of business. Senior business leaders are responsible for managing risks specific to their business objectives and business environment. The second line of defense in risk management is generally owned by ERM. ERM has the responsibility to ensure that the Company has insight into its aggregate risk and that risks are managed within the Company's overall risk appetite. Legal and Compliance also commonly act as a second line of defense in risk management. The third line of defense in risk management is owned by Internal Audit. Internal Audit provides independent assurance that each business unit’s controls are present, compliant, and effective, informs the risk identification process and provides audit and consultative support to the Company.The Company's Risk Management Framework consists of five core elements:1.Risk Culture and Governance: The Company has established policies for its major risks and a formal governance structure with leadership oversight and an assignment of accountability and authority. The governance structure starts at the Board and cascades to the ERCC and then to individual risk committees across the Company. In addition, the Company promotes a strong risk management culture and high expectations around ethical behavior.2.Risk Identification and Assessment: Through its ERM organization, the Company has developed processes for the identification, assessment, and, when appropriate, response to internal and external risks to the Company's operations and business objectives. Risk identification and prioritization has been established within each risk area, including processes around emerging risks.3.Risk Appetite, Tolerances, and Limits: The Company has a formal enterprise risk appetite framework and policy that is approved by the ERCC and reviewed by the Board. The risk appetite framework includes an enterprise risk appetite statement, risk preferences, risk tolerances and enterprise risk limits. Enterprise risk limits which quantify tolerances into specific limits by risk category are defined in underlying enterprise risk policies.4.Risk Management and Controls: While the Company utilizes the committee structure to elevate risk discussions and decision-making, there are a variety of working groups that provide decisioning and management of risk within determined tolerances and limits. ERM and the appropriate governing risk committees regularly monitor the Company's risk exposure as compared to defined limits and tolerances and provide regular reporting to the ERCC and FIRMCo.5.Risk Reporting and Communication: The Company monitors its major risks at the enterprise level through a number of enterprise reports, including but not limited to, a monthly risk dashboard, and regular stress testing. ERM communicates the Company's risk exposures to senior and executive management and the Board, and reviews key business performance metrics, risk indicators, audit reports, risk/control self-assessments and risk event data.Risk Exposures and QuantificationThe Company quantifies its enterprise insurance and financial risk exposures using multiple lenses including statutory, economic and, where appropriate, U.S. GAAP. ERM leverages various modeling techniques and metrics to provide a view of the Company's risk exposure in both normal and stressed environments. 11In order to quantify group capital levels the Company uses an Economic Capital Model (“ECM”) to quantify the value of diversification across the business lines and to advance its risk-based decision-making and optimization across risk and business. The Company also uses the ECM to inform capital attribution across the businesses. The Company categorizes its main risks as follows in order to achieve a consistent and disciplined approach to quantifying, evaluating, and managing risk:•Insurance Risk•Operational Risk•Financial RiskAdditionally, the Company manages its legal and management risks across the enterprise. Management risk includes strategic risk, the risk of ineffective or inefficient execution of the Company's strategy, as well as tax risk and reputational risk. Insurance RiskThe Company defines insurance risk as its exposure to loss due to property, liability, mortality, morbidity, disability, longevity and other perils and risks covered under its policies, including adverse development on loss reserves supporting its products and geographic accumulations of loss over time due to natural catastrophes, casualty catastrophes, terrorism and pandemic events.Operational RiskThe Company defines operational risk as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.Financial RiskFinancial risk is broadly defined by the Company to include liquidity, interest rate, equity, foreign exchange, and credit risks, all of which have the potential to materially impact the Company's financial condition. Financial risk also includes exposure to events that may cause correlated movement in the above risk factors.For further discussion on risk management, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management.RegulationInsurance companies are subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision throughout the United States. The extent of such regulation varies, but generally has its source in statutes which delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to state insurance departments. Such powers relate to, among other things, the standards of solvency that must be met and maintained; the licensing of insurers and their agents; the nature of and limitations on investments; establishing premium rates; claim handling and trade practices; restrictions on the size of risks which may be insured under a single policy; deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; approval of policy forms; periodic examinations of the affairs of companies; annual and other reports required to be filed on the financial condition of companies or for other purposes; minimum rates for accumulation of surrender values; and the adequacy of reserves and other necessary provisions for unearned premiums, unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and other liabilities, both reported and unreported.Most states have enacted legislation that regulates insurance holding company systems such as The Hartford. This legislation provides that each insurance company in the system is required to register with the insurance department of its state of domicile and furnish information concerning the operations of companies within the holding company system that may materially affect the operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system. All transactions within a holding company system affecting insurers must be fair and equitable. Notice to the insurance departments is required prior to the consummation of transactions affecting the ownership or control of an insurer and of certain material transactions between an insurer and any entity in its holding company system. In addition, certain of such transactions cannot be consummated without the applicable insurance department’s prior approval. In the jurisdictions in which the Company’s insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled, the acquisition of more than 10% of The Hartford’s outstanding common stock would require the acquiring party to make various regulatory filings.Certain of the Company’s life insurance subsidiaries sold variable life insurance, variable annuity, and some fixed guaranteed products that are “securities” registered with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Some of the products have separate accounts that are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “1940 Act”), and/or are regulated by state law. Separate account investment products are also subject to state insurance regulation. Moreover, each separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund that is also registered as an investment company under the 1940 Act (“Underlying Funds”). The Company offers these Underlying Funds and retail mutual funds that are registered with and regulated by the SEC.12In addition, other subsidiaries of the Company sold and distributed the Company’s variable insurance products, Underlying Funds and retail mutual funds as broker-dealers and are subject to regulation promulgated and enforced by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), the SEC and/or in, some instances, state securities administrators. Other entities operate as investment advisers registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and are registered as investment advisers under certain state laws, as applicable. Because federal and state laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in securities markets, they generally grant regulators broad rulemaking and enforcement authority. Some of these regulations include, among other things, regulations impacting sales methods, trading practices, suitability of investments, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds, corporate governance, capital, record keeping, and reporting requirements.The Hartford operates in limited foreign jurisdictions. The extent of financial services regulation on business outside the United States varies significantly among the countries in which The Hartford operates. Some countries have minimal regulatory requirements, while others regulate financial services providers extensively. Foreign financial services providers in certain countries are faced with greater restrictions than domestic competitors domiciled in that particular jurisdiction.In addition, as described under “Legislative Developments,” we are subject to a number of Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) provisions. Failure to comply with federal and state laws and regulations may result in censure, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension, termination or limitation of the activities of our operations and/or our employees. We cannot predict the impact of these actions on our businesses, results of operations or financial condition.Intellectual PropertyWe rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property.We have a trademark portfolio that we consider important in the marketing of our products and services, including, among others, the trademarks of The Hartford name, the Stag Logo and the combination of these two marks. The duration of trademark registrations may be renewed indefinitely subject to country-specific use and registration requirements. We regard our trademarks as extremely valuable assets in marketing our products and services and vigorously seek to protect them against infringement. In addition, we own a number of patents and patent applications relating to on-line quoting, insurance related processing, insurance telematics, proprietary interface platforms, and other matters, some of which may be important to our business operations. Patents are of varying duration depending on filing date, and will typically expire at the end of their natural term.EmployeesThe Hartford has approximately 17,400 employees as of December 31, 2015.Available InformationThe Company’s Internet address is www.thehartford.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on the investor relations section of our website, http://ir.thehartford.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. References in this report to our website address are provided only as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.13Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in The Hartford involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in The Hartford, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, any of which could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity of The Hartford and could also impact the trading price of our securities. The Hartford may also be subject to other risks and uncertainties that are not specifically described below, which may have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity of The Hartford. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by The Hartford with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The following risk factors have been organized by category for ease of use, however many of the risks may have impacts in more than one category. These categories, therefore, should be viewed as a starting point for understanding the significant risks facing us and not as a limitation on the potential impact of the matters discussed. Risk factors are not necessarily listed in order of importance.Risks Relating to Economic, Market and Political Conditions Unfavorable conditions in our operating environment, including general economic and global capital market conditions, such as changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, market volatility, foreign exchange rates, commodities prices and real estate market deterioration, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.The Company’s investment portfolio and insurance liabilities are sensitive to changes in global capital market conditions. Stressed conditions or disruptions in global capital markets can directly impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity as well as impact the economic environment. Weak economic conditions, such as high unemployment, low labor force participation, lower family income, higher tax rates, lower business investment and lower consumer spending may have adversely affected or may in the future adversely affect the demand for insurance and financial products, as well as their profitability in some cases. Global economic conditions may result in the persistence of a low interest rate environment as well as volatility in other global capital market conditions, which will continue to pressure our investment results.One important exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with our operations in Mutual Funds and Talcott Resolution, such as variable annuities, where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the assets under management. Should equity markets decline from current levels, assets under management and related fee income will be reduced. Certain of our products have guaranteed benefits that increase our potential obligation and statutory capital exposure when equity markets decline. Sustained declines in equity markets may result in the need to utilize significant additional capital to support these products and adversely affect our ability to support our other businesses.A sustained low interest rate environment would pressure our net investment income and could result in lower margins and lower estimated gross profits on certain products. New and renewal business for our property and casualty and group benefits products is priced based on prevailing interest rates. As interest rates decline, pricing targets will tend to increase to offset the lower anticipated investment income earned on invested premiums. Conversely, as interest rates rise, pricing targets will tend to decrease to reflect higher anticipated investment income. Our ability to effectively react to such changes in pricing may affect our competitiveness in the marketplace, and in turn, written premium and earnings margin achieved. In addition, due to the long-term nature of the liabilities within our Group Benefits and Talcott Resolution operations, such as structured settlements and guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, sustained declines in long-term interest rates subjects us to reinvestment risks, increased hedging costs, spread compression and capital volatility. A rise in interest rates, in the absence of other countervailing changes, will reduce the market value of our investment portfolio and, if long-term interest rates were to rise dramatically certain products within our Talcott Resolution segment might be exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate assets in an unrealized loss position. An increase in interest rates can also impact our tax planning strategies and, in particular, our ability to utilize tax benefits to offset certain previously recognized realized capital losses. Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to changes in market price of fixed income instruments associated with changes in credit spreads. If issuer credit spreads widen significantly and remain at wide levels over an extended period of time, other-than-temporary impairments and decreases in the market value of our investment portfolio will likely result. In addition, losses may also occur due to volatility in credit spreads. When credit spreads widen, we incur losses associated with credit derivatives where the Company assumes exposure. When credit spreads tighten, we incur losses associated with derivatives where the Company has purchased credit protection. If credit spreads tighten significantly, the Company's net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturities may be reduced. 14Our statutory surplus is also affected by widening credit spreads as a result of the accounting for the assets and liabilities on our fixed market value adjusted (“MVA”) annuities. Statutory separate account assets supporting the fixed MVA annuities are recorded at fair value. In determining the statutory reserve for the fixed MVA annuities we are required to use current crediting rates. In many capital market scenarios, current crediting rates are highly correlated with market rates implicit in the fair value of statutory separate account assets. As a result, the change in the statutory reserve from period to period will likely substantially offset the change in the fair value of the statutory separate account assets. However, in periods of volatile credit markets, actual credit spreads on investment assets may increase sharply for certain sub-sectors of the overall credit market, resulting in statutory separate account asset market value losses. As actual credit spreads are not fully reflected in current crediting rates, the calculation of statutory reserves may not substantially offset the change in fair value of the statutory separate account assets, resulting in reductions in statutory surplus. This may result in the need to devote significant additional capital to support the fixed MVA product.In addition, a reduction in market liquidity can make it difficult to value certain of our securities when trading becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may be more susceptible to significant period-to-period changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.Our exposure to commodity prices primarily relates to our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio includes fixed maturities and equity securities issued by companies and sovereigns that derive a portion of their revenues from commodities, including oil, coal, natural gas, and precious and non-precious metals. In periods in which the prices of these and other commodities fall, absent other countervailing changes, decreases in the market value of our investment portfolio will likely result. If these declines in commodities prices are severe and persist over an extended period of time, other-than-temporary impairments may result. Significant declines in equity prices, changes in U.S. interest rates, changes in credit spreads, inflation, or real estate market deterioration, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Our hedging assets seek to reduce the net economic sensitivity of our potential obligations from guaranteed benefits to equity market and interest rate fluctuations. Because of the accounting asymmetries between our hedging targets and statutory and GAAP accounting principles for our guaranteed benefits, rising equity markets and/or rising interest rates may result in statutory or GAAP losses.Concentration of our investment portfolio in any particular segment of the economy may have adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular industry, collateral type, group of related industries or geographic sector could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolios and consequently on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Events or developments that have a negative impact on any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic region may have a greater adverse effect on our investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated rather than diversified. Risks Relating to Estimates, Assumptions and ValuationsActual results could materially differ from the analytical models we use to assist our decision making in key areas such as underwriting, capital, hedging, reserving, and catastrophe risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We employ various modeling techniques (e.g., scenarios, predictive, stochastic and/or forecasting) to analyze and estimate exposures, loss trends and other risks associated with our insurance businesses, investments and capital management. We use the modeled outputs and related analyses to assist us in decision-making related to, among other things, underwriting, pricing, capital allocation, reserving, investments, hedging, reinsurance, and catastrophe risk. Both proprietary and third party models we use incorporate numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of interest rates, capital requirements, loss frequency and severity, currency exchange rates, policyholder behavior, equity markets and inflation, among others. The modeled outputs and related analyses are subject to the inherent limitations of any statistical analysis, including the use of historical internal and industry data and assumptions, which may be stale, incomplete or erroneous. Consequently, actual results may differ materially from our modeled results. The profitability and financial condition of the Company substantially depends on the extent to which our actual experience is consistent with assumptions we use in our models and ultimate model outputs. If, based upon these models or other factors, we misprice our products or our estimates of the risks we are exposed to prove to be materially inaccurate, our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity may be adversely affected.15Our valuations of many of our financial instruments include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The following financial instruments are carried at fair value in the Company's consolidated financial statements: fixed maturities, equity securities, freestanding and embedded derivatives, certain hedge fund investments, and separate account assets. The determination of fair values is made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly increasing/decreasing interest rates, rapidly widening/narrowing credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the financial environment. In such cases, securities may require more subjectivity and management judgment in determining their fair values and those fair values may differ materially from the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing or unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.Evaluation of available-for-sale securities for other-than-temporary impairment involves subjective determinations and could materially impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.The evaluation of impairments is a quantitative and qualitative process, which is subject to risks and uncertainties and is intended to determine whether a credit and/or non-credit impairment exists and whether an impairment should be recognized in current period earnings or in other comprehensive income. The risks and uncertainties include changes in general economic conditions, the issuer's financial condition or future recovery prospects, the effects of changes in interest rates or credit spreads and the expected recovery period. For securitized financial assets with contractual cash flows, the Company uses its best estimate of cash flows over the life of the security to determine if a security is other-than-temporarily-impaired. In addition, estimating future cash flows involves incorporating information received from third-party sources and making internal assumptions and judgments regarding the future performance of the underlying collateral and assessing the probability that an adverse change in future cash flows has occurred. The determination of the amount of other-than-temporary impairments is based upon our quarterly evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available.Additionally, our management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses their best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Inherent in management's evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Impairment losses in earnings could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.If assumptions used in estimating future gross profits differ from actual experience, we may be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC and increase reserves for guaranteed minimum death and withdrawal benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Company deferred acquisition costs associated with the prior sales of its variable annuity products. Deferred acquisition costs for the variable annuity products are amortized over the expected life of the contracts. The remaining deferred but not yet amortized cost is referred to as the Deferred Acquisition Cost (“DAC”) asset. We amortize these costs in proportion to the present value of estimated gross profits (“EGPs”). The Company evaluates the EGPs compared to the DAC asset to determine if an impairment exists. The Company also establishes reserves for GMDB and the life contingent portion of GMWB using components of EGPs. The projection of EGPs, or components of EGPs, requires the use of certain assumptions, principally related to separate account fund returns, surrender and lapse rates, interest margin (including impairments), mortality, benefit utilization, annuitization and hedging costs. Of these factors, we anticipate that changes in separate account fund returns are most likely to impact the EGP, along with the rate of amortization of such costs. However, other factors such as those the Company might employ to reduce risk, such as the cost of hedging or other risk mitigating techniques, as well as the effect of increased surrenders, could also significantly reduce estimates of future gross profits. Estimating future gross profits is a complex process requiring considerable judgment and the forecasting of events well into the future. If our assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, including lapse rates, benefit utilization, surrenders, annuitization, hedging costs or costs to employ other risk mitigating techniques prove to be inaccurate or if significant or sustained equity market declines occur, we could be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC related to variable annuity contracts, and increase reserves for GMDB and life-contingent GMWB which would result in a charge to net income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.16If our businesses do not perform well, we may be required to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset or to recognize an impairment of our goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our income tax expense includes deferred income taxes arising from temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and carryforwards for foreign tax credits, capital losses, net operating losses and alternative minimum tax credits. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax assets will be realized. Factors in management's determination include the performance of the business, including the ability to generate, from a variety of sources and tax planning strategies, sufficient future taxable income and capital gains before net operating loss and capital loss carryforwards expire. If based on available information, it is more likely than not that we are unable to recognize a full tax benefit on deferred tax assets, then a valuation allowance will be established with a corresponding charge to net income (loss). Charges to increase our valuation allowance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We test goodwill at least annually for impairment. Impairment testing is performed based upon estimates of the fair value of the “reporting unit” to which the goodwill relates. The reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below that operating segment if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business and could be adversely impacted if new business, customer retention, profitability or other drivers of performance differ from expectations. If it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, the Company must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income (loss). These write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.It is difficult for us to predict our potential exposure for asbestos and environmental claims, and our ultimate liability may exceed our currently recorded reserves, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We continue to receive asbestos and environmental claims. Significant uncertainty limits the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related expenses for both environmental and particularly asbestos claims. For some asbestos and environmental claims, we believe that the actuarial tools and other techniques we employ to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional kinds of insurance exposure are less precise in estimating reserves for our asbestos and environmental exposures. In addition, the assumptions used to estimate reserves for asbestos and environmental claims are subject to significant uncertainty, including assumptions about claim frequency, average severity and how insurance coverage applies. Accordingly, the degree of variability of reserve estimates for these longer-tailed exposures is significantly greater than for other more traditional exposures. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their effect on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. Because of the significant uncertainties that limit the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related expenses for both environmental and particularly asbestos claims, the ultimate liabilities may exceed the currently recorded reserves. Increases in reserves would be recognized as an expense during the periods in which these determinations are made, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations for the related periods. Depending on the scale of any changes in these estimated losses, such determinations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.Financial Strength, Credit and Counterparty Risks The amount of statutory capital that we have, and the amount of statutory capital that we must hold to maintain our financial strength and credit ratings and meet other requirements, can vary significantly from time to time and is sensitive to a number of factors outside of our control, including equity market, credit market and interest rate conditions, changes in policyholder behavior, changes in rating agency models, and changes in regulations.We conduct the vast majority of our business through licensed insurance company subsidiaries. Accounting standards and statutory capital and reserve requirements for these entities are prescribed by the applicable insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”). Insurance regulators have established regulations that provide minimum capitalization requirements based on risk-based capital (“RBC”) formulas for both life and property and casualty companies. The RBC formula for life companies establishes capital requirements relating to insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks, including equity, interest rate and expense recovery risks associated with variable annuities and group annuities that contain death benefits or certain living benefits. The RBC formula for property and casualty companies adjusts statutory surplus levels for certain underwriting, asset, credit and off-balance sheet risks. 17In any particular year, statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios may increase or decrease depending on a variety of factors, including the amount of statutory income or losses generated by our insurance subsidiaries, the amount of additional capital our insurance subsidiaries must hold to support business growth, the amount of dividends or distributions taken out of our insurance subsidiaries, changes in equity market levels, the value of certain fixed-income and equity securities in our investment portfolio, the value of certain derivative instruments, changes in interest rates, the impact of internal reinsurance arrangements, admissibility of deferred tax assets and changes to the NAIC RBC formulas. Most of these factors are outside of the Company's control. The Company's financial strength and credit ratings are significantly influenced by the statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios of our insurance company subsidiaries. In addition, rating agencies may implement changes to their internal models that have the effect of increasing the amount of statutory capital we must hold in order to maintain our current ratings. Also, in extreme scenarios of equity market declines and other capital market volatility, the amount of additional statutory reserves that we are required to hold for our variable annuity guarantees increases at a greater than linear rate. This reduces the statutory surplus used in calculating our RBC ratios. When equity markets increase, surplus levels and RBC ratios would generally be expected to increase. However, as a result of a number of factors and market conditions, including the level of hedging costs and other risk transfer activities, statutory reserve requirements for death and living benefit guarantees and increases in RBC requirements, surplus and RBC ratios may not increase when equity markets increase. Due to these factors, projecting statutory capital and the related RBC ratios is complex. If our statutory capital resources are insufficient to maintain a particular rating by one or more rating agencies, we may seek to raise capital through public or private equity or debt financing. If we were not to raise additional capital, either at our discretion or because we were unable to do so, our financial strength and credit ratings might be downgraded by one or more rating agencies. Downgrades in our financial strength or credit ratings, which may make our products less attractive, could increase our cost of capital and inhibit our ability to refinance our debt, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Financial strength and credit ratings are important in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Rating agencies assign ratings based upon several factors. While most of the factors relate to the rated company, some of the factors relate to the views of the rating agency (including its assessment of the strategic importance of the rated company to the insurance group), general economic conditions, and circumstances outside the rated company's control. In addition, rating agencies may employ different models and formulas to assess the financial strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies have altered these models. Changes to the models, general economic conditions, or other circumstances outside our control could impact a rating agency's judgment of its internal rating and the publicly issued rating it assigns us. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which may adversely affect us.Our financial strength ratings, which are intended to measure our ability to meet policyholder obligations, are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of our products and, as a result, our competitiveness. A downgrade or a potential downgrade in the rating of our financial strength or of one of our principal insurance subsidiaries could affect our competitive position and reduce future sales of our products.Our credit ratings also affect our cost of capital. A downgrade or a potential downgrade of our credit ratings could make it more difficult or costly to refinance maturing debt obligations, to support business growth at our insurance subsidiaries and to maintain or improve the financial strength ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries. Downgrades could begin to trigger potentially material collateral calls on certain of our derivative instruments and counterparty rights to terminate derivative relationships, both of which could limit our ability to purchase additional derivative instruments. These events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. For a further discussion of potential impacts of ratings downgrades on derivative instruments, including potential collateral calls, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Capital Resources and Liquidity - Derivative Commitments.Losses due to nonperformance or defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities, mortgage loans or reinsurance and derivative instrument counterparties, could have a material adverse effect on the value of our investments, business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Issuers or borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud, government intervention or other reasons. Such defaults could have a material adverse effect on the value of our investments, business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, the underlying assets supporting our structured securities or loans may deteriorate causing these securities or loans to incur losses.Our investment portfolio includes securities backed by real estate assets, the value of which may be adversely impacted if conditions in the real estate market significantly deteriorate, including declines in property values and increases in vacancy rates, delinquencies and foreclosures, ultimately resulting in a reduction in expected future cash flows for certain securities. 18The Company also has exposure to foreign-based issuers of securities and providers of reinsurance. These foreign issuers include European and certain emerging market issuers. Despite stabilization in the European market, there are still fundamental structural issues that remain and may result in the re-emergence of fiscal and economic issues. In addition, there has been recent volatility within certain emerging market countries spurred by concerns over the potential for rising U.S. interest rates, slowing global growth, lower prices for oil and other commodities, and the devaluation of certain currencies. Further details of the European and certain emerging market private and sovereign issuers held within the investment portfolio and the Company's European based reinsurance arrangements can be found in Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management - Investment Portfolio Risks and Risk Management. Property value declines and loss rates that exceed our current estimates, as outlined in Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management - Other-Than-Temporary Impairments, or a worsening of global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.To the extent the investment portfolio is not adequately diversified, concentrations of credit risk may exist which could negatively impact the Company if significant adverse events or developments occur in any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic regions. The Company’s investment portfolio is not exposed to any credit concentration risk of a single issuer greater than 10% of the Company's stockholders' equity other than U.S. government and U.S. government agencies backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. However, if issuers of securities or loans we hold are acquired, merge or otherwise consolidate with other issuers of securities or loans held by the Company, our investment portfolio’s credit concentration risk to issuers could increase above the 10% threshold, for a period of time, until the Company is able to sell securities to get back in compliance with the established investment credit policies. For discussion of the Company’s exposure to credit concentration risk of reinsurers, see the risk factor below.We may incur losses due to our reinsurers' unwillingness or inability to meet their obligations under reinsurance contracts and the availability, pricing and adequacy of reinsurance may not be sufficient to protect us against losses.As an insurer, we frequently use reinsurance to reduce the effect of losses that may arise from, among other things, catastrophes, GMDB's under variable annuity contracts and other risks that can cause unfavorable results of operations, and to effect the sale of one line of business to an independent company. Under these reinsurance arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of our losses and related expenses; however, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Consequently, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims, and we are subject to our reinsurers' credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from them. Although we regularly evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers to minimize our exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies, our reinsurers may become financially unsound or dispute their contractual obligations. The inability or unwillingness of any reinsurer to meet its financial obligations to us, including the impact of any insolvency or rehabilitation proceedings involving a reinsurer that could affect the Company's access to collateral held in trust, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. This risk may be magnified by a concentration of reinsurance-related credit risk resulting from the sale of the Company’s Individual Life business. Further details of such concentration can be found in Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management - Reinsurance as a Risk Management Strategy - Life Insurance Product Reinsurance Recoverable. In addition, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we are able to purchase. Reinsurance pricing changes significantly over time, and no assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain continuously available to us to the same extent and on the same terms as are currently available. If we were unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient and at prices that we consider acceptable, we would have to either accept an increase in our net liability exposure, reduce the amount of business we write, or develop to the extent possible other alternatives to reinsurance, such as use of the capital markets. Further, due to the inherent uncertainties as to collection and the length of time before reinsurance recoverables will be due, it is possible that future adjustments to the Company’s reinsurance recoverables, net of the allowance, could be required, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarterly or annual period.Our ability to declare and pay dividends is subject to limitations.The payment of future dividends on our capital stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors, which considers, among other factors, our operating results, overall financial condition, credit-risk considerations and capital requirements, as well as general business and market conditions.19Moreover, as a holding company that is separate and distinct from our insurance subsidiaries, we have no significant business operations of our own. Therefore, we rely on dividends from our insurance company subsidiaries and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash flow to meet our obligations. These obligations include payments on our debt securities and the payment of dividends on our capital stock. The Connecticut insurance holding company laws limit the payment of dividends by Connecticut-domiciled insurers and require notice to and approval by the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of dividends above certain levels. The insurance holding company laws of the other jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are incorporated, or deemed commercially domiciled, generally contain similar, and in some instances more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. Dividends paid to us by our insurance subsidiaries are further dependent on their cash requirements. For further discussion on dividends from insurance subsidiaries, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Capital Resources & Liquidity.Our rights to participate in any distribution of the assets of any of our subsidiaries, for example, upon their liquidation or reorganization, and the ability of holders of our common stock to benefit indirectly from a distribution, are subject to the prior claims of creditors of the applicable subsidiary, except to the extent that we may be a creditor of that subsidiary. Holders of our capital stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Moreover, our common stockholders are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of our preferred stock or depositary shares representing such preferred stock then outstanding. The terms of our outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on our capital stock or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if we have given notice of our election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing.Insurance Industry and Product-Related Risks Our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected by unfavorable loss development. Our success, in part, depends upon our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the coverage provided to policyholders that we insure. We establish property and casualty loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all unpaid losses and loss expenses incurred with respect to premiums earned on the policies that we write. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, loss reserves are estimates of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost, less what has been paid to date. These estimates are based upon actuarial projections and on our assessment of currently available data, as well as estimates of claims severity and frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Loss reserve estimates are refined periodically as experience develops and claims are reported and settled. Establishing an appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process. Because of this uncertainty, it is possible that our reserves at any given time will prove inadequate. Furthermore, since estimates of aggregate loss costs for prior accident years are used in pricing our insurance products, we could later determine that our products were not priced adequately to cover actual losses and related loss expenses in order to generate a profit. To the extent we determine that losses and related loss expenses are emerging unfavorably to our initial expectations, we will be required to increase reserves. Increases in reserves would be recognized as an expense during the period or periods in which these determinations are made, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations for the related period or periods. Depending on any changes in these estimated losses, such determinations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.We are particularly vulnerable to losses from catastrophes, both natural and man-made, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various unpredictable natural events, including, among others, earthquakes, hurricanes, hailstorms, severe winter weather, wind storms, fires, tornadoes, and pandemics. Catastrophes can also be man-made, such as terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, explosions or infrastructure failures. The geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposure for events occurring in a number of areas, including, but not limited to, hurricanes in Florida, the Gulf Coast, the Northeast and the Atlantic coast regions of the United States, tornadoes in the Midwest and Southeast, earthquakes in California and the New Madrid region of the United States, and the spread of disease. Any increases in the values and concentrations of insured employees and property in these areas would increase the severity of catastrophic events in the future. In addition, changing climate conditions across longer time scales, including the potential risk of broader climate change, may be increasing, or may in the future increase, the severity of certain natural catastrophe losses across various geographic regions.Potential examples of the impact of climate change on catastrophe exposure include, but are not limited to the following: an increase in the frequency or severity of wind and thunderstorm and tornado/hailstorm events due to increased convection in the atmosphere, more frequent brush fires in certain geographies due to prolonged periods of drought, higher incidence of deluge flooding, and the potential for an increase in severity of the largest hurricane events due to higher sea surface temperatures. In addition, our businesses have exposure to global or nationally occurring pandemics caused by highly infectious and potentially fatal diseases, and are spread through human, animal or plant populations. Additionally, due to such catastrophes, caused by natural or man-made events, policyholders may be unable to meet their obligations to pay premiums on our insurance policies.20Our liquidity could be constrained by a catastrophe, or multiple catastrophes, which could result in extraordinary losses. In addition, in part because accounting rules do not permit insurers to reserve for such catastrophic events until they occur, claims from catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. To the extent that the frequency or severity of catastrophe losses changes over time or models improve, we will seek to reflect any of these changes in the design and pricing of our products. However, the Company may be exposed to regulatory or legislative actions that prevent a full recognition of loss expectations in the design or pricing of our products or result in additional risk-shifting to the insurance industry.The occurrence of one or more terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve or the threat of terrorism in general may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.The occurrence of one or more terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve could result in substantially higher claims under our insurance policies than we have anticipated. Private sector catastrophe reinsurance is limited and generally unavailable for terrorism losses caused by attacks with nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological weapons. Reinsurance coverage from the federal government under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015 (“TRIPRA”) is also limited. Although TRIPRA provides benefits for certified acts of terrorism that exceed a certain threshold of industry losses ($100 in 2015, increasing to $200 by 2020), those benefits are subject to a deductible and other limitations. Under TRIPRA, once our losses exceed a deductible of 20% of our subject commercial property and casualty insurance premium for the preceding calendar year, the federal government will reimburse us a percentage of our losses (85% in 2015, decreasing 1% annually until 2020) attributable to certain acts of terrorism which exceed this deductible up to a total industry program cap of $100 billion. Our estimated deductible under the program is $1.2 billion for 2016. In addition, because the interpretation of this law is untested, there is substantial uncertainty as to how it will be applied to specific circumstances. Accordingly, the effects of a terrorist attack in the geographic areas we serve may result in claims and related losses for which we do not have adequate reinsurance. This would likely cause us to increase our reserves, adversely affect our results during the period or periods affected and, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Further, the continued threat of terrorism and the occurrence of terrorist attacks, as well as heightened security measures and military action in response to these threats and attacks or other geopolitical or military crises, may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. These consequences could have an adverse effect on the value of the assets in our investment portfolio as well as those in our separate accounts. Terrorist attacks also could disrupt our operations centers in the U.S. or abroad. As a result, it is possible that any, or a combination of all, of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.Our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected by the emergence of unexpected and unintended claim and coverage issues. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may either extend coverage beyond our underwriting intent or increase the frequency or severity of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued, and this liability may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity at the time it becomes known.Competitive activity or technological changes may adversely affect our market share, demand for our products, or our financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. Our principal competitors are other property and casualty insurers, group benefits providers and other mutual fund companies. Competitors may expand their risk appetites in products and services where The Hartford currently enjoys a competitive advantage. Larger competitors with more capital and new entrants to the market could result in increased pricing pressures on a number of our products and services and may harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. For example, larger competitors may have lower operating costs and an ability to absorb greater risk while maintaining their financial strength ratings, thereby allowing them to price their products more competitively. Consolidation among insurance companies may allow competitors to grow earnings and achieve economies of scale, giving them an overall competitive advantage. In addition, a number of insurers are making use of "big data" analytics to, among other things, improve pricing accuracy, be more targeted in marketing, strengthen customer relationships and provide more customized loss prevention services. If they are able to use big data more effectively than we are, it may give them a competitive advantage. Because of the highly competitive nature of these industries, there can be no assurance that we will continue to compete effectively with our industry rivals, or that competitive pressure will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.21Our business could also be affected by technological changes, including further advancements in automotive safety features, the development of autonomous or “self-driving” vehicles, and platforms that facilitate ride sharing. These technologies could impact the frequency or severity of losses, disrupt the demand for certain of our products, or reduce the size of the automobile insurance market as a whole. While there is substantial uncertainty about the timing, penetration and reliability of such technologies, any such impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.We may experience difficulty in marketing, distributing and providing insurance products and investment advisory services through current and future distribution channels and advisory firms. We distribute our insurance products and mutual funds through a variety of distribution channels, including brokers, independent agents, broker-dealers, banks, affinity partners, our own internal sales force and other third-party organizations. In some areas of our business, we generate a significant portion of our business through or in connection with individual third-party arrangements. For example, we market personal lines products in large part through an exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP that continues through January 1, 2023. Our ability to distribute products through affinity partners may be adversely impacted by membership levels and the pace of membership growth. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of certain of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. An interruption in our continuing relationship with certain of these third parties, including potentially as a result of a strategic transaction or other Company initiatives, could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.As a property and casualty insurer, the premium rates we are able to charge and the profits we are able to obtain are affected by the actions of state insurance departments that regulate our business, the cyclical nature of the business in which we compete and our ability to adequately price the risks we underwrite, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Pricing adequacy depends on a number of factors, including the ability to obtain regulatory approval for rate changes, proper evaluation of underwriting risks, the ability to project future loss cost frequency and severity, our response to rate actions taken by competitors, and expectations about regulatory and legal developments and expense levels. We seek to price our property and casualty insurance policies such that insurance premiums and future net investment income earned on premiums received will provide for an acceptable profit in excess of underwriting expenses and the cost of paying claims.State insurance departments that regulate us often propose premium rate changes for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and may not allow us to reach targeted levels of profitability. In addition to regulating rates, certain states have enacted laws that require a property and casualty insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities, joint underwriting associations and other residual market plans, or to offer coverage to all consumers and often restrict an insurer's ability to charge the price it might otherwise charge or restrict an insurer's ability to offer or enforce specific policy deductibles. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of business at lower than desired rates or accept additional risk not contemplated in our existing rates, participate in the operating losses of residual market plans or pay assessments to fund operating deficits of state-sponsored funds, possibly leading to lower returns on equity. The laws and regulations of many states also limit an insurer's ability to withdraw from one or more lines of insurance in the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state's insurance department. Additionally, certain states require insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the state. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.Additionally, the property and casualty insurance market is historically cyclical, experiencing periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, less restrictive underwriting standards, more expansive coverage offerings and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively low levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards, more coverage restrictions and relatively high premium rates. Prices tend to increase for a particular line of business when insurance carriers have incurred significant losses in that line of business in the recent past or when the industry as a whole commits less of its capital to writing exposures in that line of business. Prices tend to decrease when recent loss experience has been favorable or when competition among insurance carriers increases. In all of our property and casualty insurance product lines and states, there is a risk that the premium we charge may ultimately prove to be inadequate as reported losses emerge. In addition, there is a risk that regulatory constraints, price competition or incorrect pricing assumptions could prevent us from achieving targeted returns. Inadequate pricing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.22Adjustments to our risk management program relating to products we offered with guaranteed benefits to emphasize protection of economic value may result in statutory and U.S. GAAP volatility in our earnings and potentially material charges to net income (loss). Some of the in-force business within our Talcott Resolution operations, especially variable annuities, offer guaranteed benefits, including guaranteed minimum death benefits and guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits. These GMDBs and GMWBs expose the Company to interest rate risk but also have significant equity risk. A decline in equity markets would not only result in lower earnings, but would also increase our exposure to liability for benefit claims. We use reinsurance and benefit designs, such as caps, to mitigate the exposure associated with GMDB. We also use reinsurance in combination with product management actions, such as rider fee increases, investment restrictions and buyout offers, as well as derivative instruments to attempt to minimize the claim exposure and to reduce the volatility of net income associated with the GMWB liability. We remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay, which could result in a need for additional capital to support in-force business.From time to time, we may adjust our risk management program based on contracts in force, market conditions, or other factors. While we believe that these actions improve the efficiency of our risk management related to these benefits, any such adjustments may result in greater statutory and U.S. GAAP earnings volatility and, based upon the types of hedging instruments used, can result in potentially material charges to net income (loss) in periods of rising equity market pricing levels, higher interest rates and declines in volatility. We are also subject to the risk that these management actions prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed, which individually or collectively may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.Regulatory and Legal Risks The impact of regulatory initiatives and legislative developments, including the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Regulatory initiatives and legislative developments may significantly affect our operations and prospects in ways that we cannot predict. U.S. and overseas governmental and regulatory authorities, including the SEC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve"), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), the NYSE and FINRA are considering enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future financial crises or otherwise stabilize the institutions under their supervision. Such measures are likely to lead to stricter regulation of financial institutions generally, and heightened prudential requirements for systemically important companies in particular. Such measures could include taxation of financial transactions and restrictions on employee compensation.The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted on July 21, 2010, mandating changes to the regulation of the financial services industry. Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act is ongoing and may affect our operations and governance in ways that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act requires central clearing of, and imposes new margin requirements on, certain derivatives transactions, which increases the costs of our hedging program. Other provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that may impact us include: the “Federal Insurance Office” within Treasury; the possible adverse impact on the pricing and liquidity of the securities in which we invest resulting from the proprietary trading and market making limitation of the Volcker Rule; the possible adverse impact on the market for insurance-linked securities, including catastrophe bonds, resulting from the limitations of banking entity involvement in and ownership of certain asset-backed securities transactions; and enhancements to corporate governance, especially regarding risk management.The Dodd-Frank Act vests the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) with the power to designate “systemically important” institutions, which are subject to special regulatory supervision and other provisions intended to prevent, or mitigate the impact of, future disruptions in the U.S. financial system. Based on its most current financial data, The Hartford is below the quantitative thresholds used by the FSOC to determine which nonbank companies merit consideration. However, the FSOC has indicated it will review on a quarterly basis whether nonbank financial institutions meet the metrics for further review. If we were to be designated as a systemically important institution, we would be subject to heightened regulation under the Federal Reserve, which could impact requirements regarding our capital, liquidity and leverage as well as our business and investment conduct. In addition, we could be subject to assessments to pay for the orderly liquidation of other systemically important financial institutions that have become insolvent. As a result of these requirements, we could incur substantial costs that would affect our ability to price our products competitively, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 23We may experience unfavorable judicial or legislative developments involving claim litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The Hartford is involved in claims litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, both as a liability insurer defending or providing indemnity for third-party claims brought against insureds and as an insurer defending coverage claims brought against it. The Hartford accounts for such activity through the establishment of unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. The Company is also involved in legal actions that do not arise in the ordinary course of business, some of which assert claims for substantial amounts. Pervasive or significant changes in the judicial environment relating to matters such as trends in the size of jury awards, developments in the law relating to the liability of insurers or tort defendants, and rulings concerning the availability or amount of certain types of damages could cause our ultimate liabilities to change from our current expectations. Changes in federal or state tort litigation laws or other applicable law could have a similar effect. It is not possible to predict changes in the judicial and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of the adequacy of our loss reserves, particularly reserves for longer-tailed lines of business, including asbestos and environmental reserves, and how those changes might adversely affect our ability to price our products appropriately. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could also be adversely affected if judicial or legislative developments cause our ultimate liabilities to increase from current expectations.Potential changes in regulation may increase our business costs and required capital levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are complex, subject to change and often conflicting in their approach or intended outcomes. Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and can affect our strategy, as well as the demand for and profitability of the products we offer.State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our insurance businesses, and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled, licensed or authorized to conduct business. These regulatory regimes are generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than insurers, their shareholders and other investors. U.S. state laws grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things, licensing and authorization for lines of business, statutory capital and reserve requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer's business.In addition, future regulatory initiatives could be adopted at the federal or state level that could impact the profitability of our businesses. For example, the NAIC and state insurance regulators are continually reexamining existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to statutory accounting principles, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. The NAIC continues to enhance the U.S. system of insurance solvency regulation, with a particular focus on group supervision, risk-based capital, accounting and financial reporting, enterprise risk management and reinsurance. Any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives, if adopted, may be more restrictive on our ability to conduct business than current regulatory requirements or may result in higher costs or increased statutory capital and reserve requirements. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board and the International Association of Insurance Supervisors ("IAIS") each have initiatives underway to develop insurance group capital standards. While the Company would not currently be subject to either of these capital standard regimes, it is possible that in the future standards similar to what is being contemplated by the Federal Reserve Board or the IAIS could apply to the Company. The NAIC is in the process of developing a U.S. group capital calculation that will employ a methodology based on aggregated risk-based capital.Further, because these laws and regulations are complex and sometimes inexact, there is also a risk that our business may not fully comply with a particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal, accounting, or reserving issue or that such regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation may change over time to our detriment, or expose us to different or additional regulatory risks. The application of these regulations and guidelines by insurers involves interpretations and judgments that may not be consistent with the opinion of state insurance departments. We cannot provide assurance that such differences of opinion will not result in regulatory, tax or other challenges to the actions we have taken to date. The result of those potential challenges could require us to increase levels of statutory capital and reserves or incur higher operating and/or tax costs.In addition, our international operations are subject to regulation in the relevant jurisdictions in which they operate which in many ways is similar to the state regulation outlined above, with similar related restrictions and obligations. Our asset management businesses are also subject to extensive regulation in the various jurisdictions where they operate. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets or investment advisory clients and generally grant supervisory authorities broad administrative powers. Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly, time consuming and personnel intensive, and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. See the risk factor, “The impact of regulatory initiatives and legislative developments, including the implementation of The Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.”24Changes in federal or state tax laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.Changes in federal or state tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition, and could result in our incurring materially higher corporate taxes. Higher tax rates may cause the small businesses we insure to hire fewer workers and decrease investment in their businesses, including purchasing vehicles, property and equipment, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Conversely, if income tax rates decline it could adversely affect the Company's ability to realize the benefits of its deferred tax assets.In addition, the Company’s tax return reflects certain items, including but not limited to, tax-exempt bond interest, dividends received deductions, tax credits (such as foreign tax credits), and insurance reserve deductions. There is an increasing risk that, in the context of deficit reduction or overall tax reform, federal and/or state tax legislation could modify or eliminate these items, impacting the Company, its investments, investment strategies, and/or its policyholders. Although the specific form of any such legislation is uncertain, changes to the taxation of municipal bond interest could materially and adversely impact the value of those bonds, limit our investment choices and depress portfolio yield. Elimination of the dividends received deduction or changes to the taxation of reserving methodologies for P&C companies could increase the Company’s actual tax rate, thereby reducing earnings. Moreover, many of the products that the Company previously sold benefit from one or more forms of tax-favored status under current federal and state income tax regimes. For example, the Company previously sold annuity contracts that allowed policyholders to defer the recognition of taxable income earned within the contract. Because the Company no longer sells these products, changes in the future taxation of life insurance and/or annuity contracts will not adversely impact future sales. If, however, the treatment of earnings accrued inside an annuity contract was changed prospectively, and the tax-favored status of existing contracts was grandfathered, holders of existing contracts would be less likely to surrender, which would make running off our existing annuity business more difficult.Regulatory requirements could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. Before a person can acquire control of a U.S. insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance commissioner of the state where the domestic insurer is domiciled. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer, the state insurance commissioner will consider such factors as the financial strength of the applicant, the acquirer's plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer, and any such additional information as the insurance commissioner may deem necessary or appropriate for the protection of policyholders or in the public interest. Generally, state statutes provide that control over a domestic insurer is presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing 10 percent or more of the voting securities of the domestic insurer or its parent company. Because a person acquiring 10 percent or more of our common stock would indirectly control the same percentage of the stock of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, the insurance change of control laws of various U.S. jurisdictions would likely apply to such a transaction. Other laws or required approvals pertaining to one or more of our existing subsidiaries, or a future subsidiary, may contain similar or additional restrictions on the acquisition of control of the Company. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change of control, including transactions that our Board of Directors and some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable.Changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements could result in material changes to our reported results of operations and financial condition.U.S. GAAP and related financial reporting requirements are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by the relevant authoritative bodies. Such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. Changes in U.S. GAAP and financial reporting requirements, or in the interpretation of U.S. GAAP or those requirements, could result in material changes to our reported results and financial condition. Other Strategic and Operational Risks As our Talcott Resolution business continues to runoff, the Company is exposed to a number of risks related to the runoff business that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Despite being in runoff, Talcott Resolution represents a meaningful share of the Company’s earnings. Talcott Resolution’s revenues and earnings will decline over time as variable and fixed annuity policies lapse. While the Company has been reducing expenses associated with the Talcott Resolution business as the revenues from that business decline, going forward it may become more difficult to reduce expenses, particularly corporate and other enterprise shared services costs, and this could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations going forward. In addition, dividends and distributions from the Company’s life insurance subsidiaries have helped fund a significant portion of share repurchases and pay downs of debt under the Company’s announced capital management program. As the Talcott Resolution earnings decline, there will be less retained earnings in the Company’s Talcott Resolution insurance subsidiaries available to fund capital management actions. 25Further, while the Company continues to actively consider alternatives for reducing the size and risk of the annuity book of business, opportunities to do so may be limited and any initiatives pursued may not achieve the anticipated benefits and may negatively impact our statutory capital, net income, core earnings or shareholders’ equity. The Company could pursue transactions or other strategic options to reduce the size and risk of Talcott Resolution's annuity book of business which could result in a significant loss to the Company.The ability to execute on our capital management plan, expense reduction initiatives and other actions, which may include acquisitions, divestitures or restructurings, is subject to material challenges, uncertainties and risks which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The ability to execute on our capital management plan remains subject to material challenges, uncertainties and risks. We may not achieve all of the benefits we expect to derive from our plan to repurchase our equity and reduce our debt. Our capital management plan is subject to execution risks, including, among others, risks related to market fluctuations and investor interest and potential legal constraints that could delay execution at an otherwise optimal time. There can be no assurance that we will in fact complete our capital management plan over the planned time frame or at all. Initiatives to reduce expenses so that our ongoing businesses remain or become cost efficient may not be successful and we may not be able to reduce corporate and shared services expenses in the manner and on the schedule we currently anticipate. We may take further actions beyond the capital management plan, which may include acquisitions, divestitures or restructurings, that may involve additional uncertainties and risks that negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.If we are unable to maintain the availability of our systems and safeguard the security of our data due to the occurrence of disasters or a cyber or other information security incident, our ability to conduct business may be compromised, we may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.We use technology to process, store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer and company data and information. Our information technology and telecommunications systems, in turn, interface with and rely upon third-party systems or maintenance. Our business is highly dependent on our ability, and the ability of certain third parties, to access our systems to perform necessary business functions, including, without limitation, providing insurance quotes, processing premium payments, making changes to existing policies, filing and paying claims, administering variable annuity products and mutual funds, providing customer support, managing our investment portfolios and hedging programs. and conducting our financial reporting and analysis.Systems failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform our business functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business and hurt our relationships with our business partners and customers. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, a pandemic, an industrial accident, a cyber attack, a blackout, a terrorist attack (including conventional, nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological) or war, systems upon which we rely may be inaccessible to our employees, customers or business partners for an extended period of time. Even if our employees and business partners are able to report to work, they may be unable to perform their duties for an extended period of time if our data or systems used to conduct our business are disabled or destroyed.Our systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer related penetrations. The frequency and sophistication of such threats continue to increase as well. While, to date, The Hartford is not aware of having experienced a material breach of our cyber security systems, administrative and technical controls as well as other preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, denial of service, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our systems or those of third parties with whom we do business. Such an event could compromise our confidential information as well as that of our clients and third parties, with whom we interact, impede or interrupt our business operations and may result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, loss of revenue, additional regulatory scrutiny and litigation and reputational damage. In addition, we routinely transmit, to third parties personal, confidential and proprietary information, which may be related to employees and customers, by email and other electronic means, along with receiving and storing such information on our systems. Although we attempt to keep such information confidential, we may be unable to utilize such capabilities in all events, especially with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties who may not have or use appropriate controls to protect confidential information.Furthermore, certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments, the European Union or other jurisdictions or enacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees or others and, in some cases, specifying required control processes. A misuse or mishandling of confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from an employee or third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm.26Third parties to whom we outsource certain of our functions, including but not limited to third party administrators, are also subject to cyber-breaches of confidential information, along with the other risks outlined above, any one of which may result in our incurring substantial costs and other negative consequences, including a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. While we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides both third party liability and first party insurance coverages, our insurance may not be sufficient to protect against all loss.Our framework for managing operational risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us that could adversely affect our businesses.Our business performance is highly dependent on our ability to manage operational risks that arise from a large number of day-to-day business activities, including insurance underwriting, claims processing, servicing, investment, financial and tax reporting, compliance with regulatory requirements and other activities, many of which are very complex and for some of which we rely on third parties. In addition, information technology investments we have made or plan to make in order to improve our operations are subject to material challenges, uncertainties and risks which may adversely impact our ability to achieve the intended business growth, expense reduction and operational efficiencies. In particular, a number of the information technology platforms we use to administer and service our business are aging. While we have replaced a number of these systems in recent years, some older information technology platforms remain in place and efforts to replace and modernize them may take longer than expected or may not achieve the intended benefits. We seek to monitor and control our exposure to operational risks through a risk control framework encompassing a variety of reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. We cannot be completely confident that these processes and procedures will effectively control all known risks or effectively identify unforeseen risks, or that our employees and third-party agents will effectively implement them. Management of operational risks can fail for a number of reasons, including design failure, systems failure, failures to perform, cyber security attacks, human error, or unlawful activities on the part of employees or third parties. In the event that our controls are not effective or not properly implemented, we could suffer financial or other loss, disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. Losses resulting from these failures can vary significantly in size, scope and scale and may have material adverse effects on our financial condition or results of operations.If we experience difficulties arising from outsourcing and similar third-party relationships, our ability to conduct business may be compromised, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We outsource certain business and administrative functions and rely on third-party vendors to provide certain services on our behalf. We have also taken action to reduce coordination costs and take advantage of economies of scale by transitioning multiple functions and services to a small number of third-party providers. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. If our continuing relationship with certain third-party providers, particularly those on which we rely for multiple functions or services, is interrupted, or if such third-party providers experience disruptions or do not perform as anticipated, or we experience problems with a transition, we may experience operational difficulties, an inability to meet obligations (including, but not limited to, policyholder obligations), increased costs and a loss of business that may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For other risks associated with our outsourcing of certain functions, see the risk factor, “If we are unable to maintain the availability of our systems and safeguard the security of our data due to the occurrence of disasters or a cyber or other information security incident, our ability to conduct business may be compromised, we may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.”27We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we use a broad range of measures to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which represents a diversion of resources that may be significant in amount and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce the protection of our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. We also may be subject to costly litigation in the event that another party alleges our operations or activities infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that could be infringed by our products, systems, methods, processes or services. Any party that holds such a patent could make a claim of infringement against us. We may be subject to patent claims from certain individuals and companies who have acquired patent portfolios for the sole purpose of asserting such claims against other companies. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark, patent, trade secret or license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed a third-party patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial liability, and in some circumstances could be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, systems, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses, or alternatively could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.28Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS