Item 1A. Risk Factors” for an additional description of this risk. Intellectual PropertyWe own numerous United States and foreign patents and have patent applications pending in the United States and abroad. We also license intellectual property rights to and from third parties, some of which bear royalties and are terminable in specified circumstances. In addition to our patent portfolio, we possess a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. We also own numerous United States and foreign trademarks and trade names for a variety of our product names, and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending in the United States and abroad. We believe that patents and other proprietary rights are important to the development of both of our reporting segments, but we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain the competitive position of both of our reporting segments. We do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other proprietary right would have a material adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our reporting segments. In some cases, we may participate in litigation or other proceedings to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or our licensors’ patents, to protect our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the scope and validity of our or third parties’ intellectual property rights. Litigation of this type could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. An adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding could subject us to 9Table of Contentssignificant liabilities or expenses, require us to cease using disputed intellectual property or cease the sale of a product, or require us to license the disputed intellectual property from third parties. We are currently involved in a lawsuit involving claims of violation of intellectual property rights. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for a discussion of this matter. BacklogWe believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for either of our business segments due to the short lead time required on a majority of our sales. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business. CompetitionDue to the wide range of our products and services, we face many different types of competition and competitors. This affects our ability to sell our products and services and the prices at which these products and services are sold. Our competitors range from large foreign and domestic organizations, which produce a comprehensive array of goods and services and that may have greater financial and other resources than we do, to small firms producing a limited number of goods or services for specialized market segments. We compete on the basis of service level, price, technological innovation, operational efficiency, product differentiation, product availability, quality and reliability. Competitors range from multinational organizations with a wide range of products to specialized firms that in some cases have well-established market niches. We expect the proportion of large competitors to increase through the continued consolidation of competitors. We believe we compete effectively in each of the areas in which our businesses experience competition. Research and DevelopmentResearch and development expenditures were $133.0 million during fiscal year 2013, $132.6 million during fiscal year 2012, and $115.8 million during fiscal year 2011. We have a broad product base, and we do not expect any single research and development project to have significant costs. We directed our research and development efforts in fiscal years 2013, 2012, and 2011 primarily toward the diagnostics and research markets within our Human Health segment, and the environmental, and laboratory service and support markets within our Environmental Health segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives. We expect to continue our strong investments in research and development to drive growth during fiscal year 2014, and to continue to emphasize the diagnostics and research markets within our Human Health segment, and the environmental, industrial and laboratory services markets within our Environmental Health segment.Environmental MattersOur operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. These requirements include those governing uses, emissions and discharges of hazardous substances, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, the regulation of radioactive materials, and the health and safety of our employees. We may have liability under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act and comparable state statutes that impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault, in connection with materials that we or our former businesses sent to various third-party sites. We have incurred, and expect to incur, costs pursuant to these statutes. We are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) for certain waste disposal sites. We accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. During fiscal year 2013, we accrued an additional $5.7 million related to a particular site for increased monitoring and mitigation activities, of which $4.6 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013. We have accrued $13.5 million as of December 29, 2013, which represents our management’s estimate of the cost of the remediation of known environmental matters, and does not include any potential liability for related personal injury or property damage claims. This amount is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any material amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. These cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. For sites where we have been named a PRP, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. We expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. As assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, 10Table of Contentsthese liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. There have been no environmental problems to date that have had, or are expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. While it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded. We may become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities. Compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws, or the discovery of new contamination could cause us to incur additional costs. EmployeesAs of December 29, 2013, we employed approximately 7,600 employees in our continuing operations. Several of our subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions and workers’ councils. As of December 29, 2013, we estimate that we employed an aggregate of approximately 1,400 union and workers’ council employees. We consider our relations with employees to be satisfactory.Financial Information About Reporting SegmentsWe realigned our organization at the beginning of fiscal year 2013, to allow us to implement our strategy and propel our vision to improve global health by innovating technologies that help make healthcare more effective, affordable and accessible around the world. Our Informatics business, as well as our field service on products previously sold by our former Bio-discovery business, were moved from our Environmental Health segment into our Human Health segment. The results reported for fiscal year 2013 reflect this new alignment of our operating segments. Financial information relating to fiscal years 2012 and 2011 has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the changes to the operating segments.We have included the expenses for our corporate headquarters, such as legal, tax, audit, human resources, information technology, and other management and compliance costs, as well as the activity related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans, as “Corporate” below. We have a process to allocate and recharge expenses to the reportable segments when these costs are administered or paid by the corporate headquarters based on the extent to which the segment benefited from the expenses. These amounts have been calculated in a consistent manner and are included in our calculations of segment results to internally plan and assess the performance of each segment for all purposes, including determining the compensation of the business leaders for each of our reporting segments. 11Table of ContentsThe table below sets forth revenue and operating income (loss), excluding discontinued operations, by reporting segment for the fiscal years ended:  December 29, 2013 December 30, 2012 January 1, 2012   (As adjusted) (In thousands)Human Health     Product revenue$957,022 $926,733 $761,665Service revenue252,734 247,909 216,227Total revenue1,209,756 1,174,642 977,892Operating income from continuing operations(1)146,100 59,196 89,725Environmental Health     Product revenue541,048 547,941 557,845Service revenue415,428 392,622 382,771Total revenue956,476 940,563 940,616Operating income from continuing operations(1)97,052 111,844 108,922Corporate     Operating loss from continuing operations(2)(25,710) (72,497) (107,519)Continuing Operations     Product revenue$1,498,070 $1,474,674 $1,319,510Service revenue668,162 640,531 598,998Total revenue2,166,232 2,115,205 1,918,508Operating income from continuing operations217,442 98,543 91,128Interest and other expense, net64,110 47,956 26,774Income from continuing operations before income taxes$153,332 $50,587 $64,354____________________________(1) Pre-tax impairment charges have been included in the Human Health and Environmental Health operating income from continuing operations. We recognized a $6.7 million pre-tax impairment charge in the Human Health segment in fiscal year 2013. We recognized $73.4 million of pre-tax impairment charges in the Human Health segment and also recognized $0.7 million of pre-tax impairment charges in the Environmental Health segment in fiscal year 2012. We recognized a $3.0 million pre-tax impairment charge in the Human Health segment in fiscal year 2011. (2) Activity related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans have been included in the Corporate operating loss from continuing operations, and together constituted pre-tax income of $17.6 million in fiscal year 2013, a pre-tax loss of $31.8 million in fiscal year 2012, and a pre-tax loss of $67.9 million in fiscal year 2011.Additional information relating to our reporting segments is as follows for the fiscal years ended:  Depreciation and AmortizationExpense Capital Expenditures December 29, 2013 December 30, 2012 January 1, 2012 December 29, 2013 December 30, 2012 January 1, 2012   (As adjusted)   (As adjusted) (In thousands) (In thousands)Human Health$100,174 $101,336 $81,938 $20,910 $24,525 $16,570Environmental Health25,915 23,001 27,288 16,532 14,488 12,015Corporate2,382 2,528 1,695 1,549 3,395 2,007Continuing operations$128,471 $126,865 $110,921 $38,991 $42,408 $30,592 12Table of Contents Total Assets December 29, 2013 December 30, 2012 January 1, 2012   (As adjusted) (In thousands)Human Health$2,698,640 $2,714,366 $2,674,243Environmental Health1,213,801 1,153,444 1,150,015Corporate34,271 33,952 31,181Net current and long-term assets of discontinued operations— — 202Total assets$3,946,712 $3,901,762 $3,855,641Financial Information About Geographic AreasBoth of our reporting segments conduct business in, and derive substantial revenue from, various countries outside the United States. During fiscal year 2013, we had $1,330.6 million in sales from our international operations, representing approximately 60% of our total sales. During fiscal year 2013, we derived approximately 48% of our international sales from our Human Health segment, and approximately 52% of our international sales from our Environmental Health segment. We anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales in the future. We are exposed to the risks associated with international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, regional and country-specific political and economic conditions, foreign receivables collection concerns, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, tax risks, staffing and labor law concerns, intellectual property protection risks, and differing regulatory requirements. Additional geographic information is discussed in Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Item 1A.Risk FactorsThe following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations:If the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated due to a decline in general economic conditions, or there are uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals, or there are unfavorable changes in government regulations, we may see an adverse effect on the results of our business operations.Our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, laboratories, academic and research institutions, public health authorities, private healthcare organizations, doctors and government agencies. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter. In addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future quarters are often based on the expected trends in our markets. However, the markets we serve do not always experience the trends that we may expect. Negative fluctuations in our customers’ markets, the inability of our customers to secure credit or funding, restrictions in capital expenditures, general economic conditions, cuts in government funding or unfavorable changes in government regulations would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. In addition, government funding is subject to economic conditions and the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. Our revenues may be adversely affected if our customers delay or reduce purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals. Such declines could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and trading price of our common stock, and could limit our ability to sustain profitability.Our growth is subject to global economic and political conditions, and operational disruptions at our facilities.Our business is affected by global economic conditions and the state of the financial markets, particularly as the United States and other countries balance concerns around debt, inflation, growth and budget allocations in their policy initiatives. There can be no assurance that global economic conditions and financial markets will not worsen and that we will not experience any adverse effects that may be material to our consolidated cash flows, results of operations, financial position or our ability to access capital, such as the adverse effects resulting from a prolonged shutdown in government operations both in the United States and internationally. Our business is also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, financial liquidity and currency volatility or devaluation. Political changes, some of which may be disruptive, could interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. While we take precautions to prevent production or service interruptions at our global facilities, a major earthquake, fire, flood, power loss or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or delay of any of our critical business operations 13Table of Contentscould result in our incurring significant liability to customers or other third parties, cause significant reputational damage or have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Certain of these risks can be hedged to a limited degree using financial instruments, or other measures, and some of these risks are insurable, but any such mitigation efforts are costly and may not always be fully successful. Our ability to engage in such mitigation efforts has decreased or become even more costly as a result of recent market developments.If we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets.We sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions, and evolving customer needs and industry standards. Many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities, and established distribution channels to deliver products to customers. Our products could become technologically obsolete over time, or we may invest in technology that does not lead to revenue growth or continue to sell products for which the demand from our customers is declining, in which case we may lose market share or not achieve our revenue growth targets. The success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to:•accurately anticipate customer needs,•innovate and develop new technologies and applications,•successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner,•price our products competitively, and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and•differentiate our offerings from our competitors’ offerings.Many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. We must anticipate industry trends and consistently develop new products to meet our customers’ expectations. In developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. If we fail to accurately foresee our customers’ needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. We may also suffer a loss in market share and potential revenue if we are unable to commercialize our technology in a timely and efficient manner.In addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications.We may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing businesses, make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable, or successfully divest businesses.We have in the past supplemented, and may in the future supplement, our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines, such as our acquisition of Shanghai Haoyuan Biotech Co., Ltd. ("Haoyuan") in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012. However, we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, such as:•competition among buyers and licensees,•the high valuations of businesses and technologies,•the need for regulatory and other approval, and•our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions.Some of the businesses we acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable, or may increase the variability of our revenue recognition. Accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. For these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we would have to improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. We may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, such as incompatible management, information or other systems, cultural differences, loss of key personnel, unforeseen regulatory requirements, previously undisclosed liabilities or difficulties in predicting financial results. Additionally, if we are not successful in selling businesses we seek to divest, the activity of such businesses may dilute our earnings and we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of such divestitures. As a result, our financial results may differ from our forecasts or the expectations of the investment community in a given quarter or over the long term.14Table of ContentsTo finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. We may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. We may also incur expenses related to completing acquisitions or licensing technologies, or in evaluating potential acquisitions or technologies, which may adversely impact our profitability.We may not be successful in adequately protecting our intellectual property.Patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing new products, processes and technologies gives us a competitive advantage, although it is time-consuming and expensive. We own many United States and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents. Patent applications we file, however, may not result in issued patents or, if they do, the claims allowed in the patents may be narrower than what is needed to protect fully our products, processes and technologies. The expiration of our previously issued patents may cause us to lose a competitive advantage in certain of the products and services we provide. Similarly, applications to register our trademarks may not be granted in all countries in which they are filed. For our intellectual property that is protected by keeping it secret, such as trade secrets and know-how, we may not use adequate measures to protect this intellectual property.Third parties may also challenge the validity of our issued patents, may circumvent or “design around” our patents and patent applications, or may claim that our products, processes or technologies infringe their patents. In addition, third parties may assert that our product names infringe their trademarks. We may incur significant expense in legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property against infringement by third parties or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties. Claims by third parties in pending or future lawsuits could result in awards of substantial damages against us or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the United States or other countries.If we are unable to renew our licenses or otherwise lose our licensed rights, we may have to stop selling products or we may lose competitive advantage.We may not be able to renew our existing licenses, or licenses we may obtain in the future, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. Potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share.Our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. If we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market. In some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. In addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. For example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third-party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses.If we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed.We encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. We may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. To remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products. We anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. In addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines.Our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate, which could increase the volatility of our stock price and potentially cause losses to our shareholders.Given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenue and profitability. Changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we may not be able to make those adjustments or make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. A high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our research and development and manufacturing costs. As a result, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. Factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include:•demand for and market acceptance of our products,•competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices,•changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business,•changes in general economic conditions or government funding,15Table of Contents•settlements of income tax audits,•expenses incurred in connection with claims related to environmental conditions at locations where we conduct or formerly conducted operations,•differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to taxation,•changes in our effective tax rate,•changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical and biomedical,•changes in the portions of our revenue represented by our various products and customers,•our ability to introduce new products,•our competitors’ announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations,•costs of raw materials, energy or supplies,•changes in healthcare or other reimbursement rates paid by government agencies and other third parties for certain of our products and services,•our ability to realize the benefit of ongoing productivity initiatives,•changes in the volume or timing of product orders, •fluctuation in the expense related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans•changes in our assumptions underlying future funding of pension obligations, and•changes in assumptions used to determine contingent consideration in acquisitions.A significant disruption in third-party package delivery and import/export services, or significant increases in prices for those services, could interfere with our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability.We ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery and import/export companies, including UPS and Federal Express in the United States; TNT, UPS and DHL in Europe; and UPS in Asia. We also ship our products through other carriers, including national trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the United States Postal Service. If one or more of the package delivery or import/export providers experiences a significant disruption in services or institutes a significant price increase, we may have to seek alternative providers and the delivery of our products could be prevented or delayed. Such events could cause us to incur increased shipping costs that could not be passed on to our customers, negatively impacting our profitability and our relationships with certain of our customers.Disruptions in the supply of raw materials, certain key components and other goods from our limited or single source suppliers could have an adverse effect on the results of our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers.The production of our products requires a wide variety of raw materials, key components and other goods that are generally available from alternate sources of supply. However, certain critical raw materials, key components and other goods required for the production and sale of some of our principal products are available from limited or single sources of supply. We generally have multi-year contracts with no minimum purchase requirements with these suppliers, but those contracts may not fully protect us from a failure by certain suppliers to supply critical materials or from the delays inherent in being required to change suppliers and, in some cases, validate new raw materials. Such raw materials, key components and other goods can usually be obtained from alternative sources with the potential for an increase in price, decline in quality or delay in delivery. A prolonged inability to obtain certain raw materials, key components or other goods is possible and could have an adverse effect on our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers.We are subject to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission requiring disclosure as to whether certain materials known as conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten), which may be contained in our products are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. As a result of these rules, we may incur additional costs in complying with the disclosure requirements and in satisfying those customers who require that the components used in our products be certified as conflict-free, and the potential lack of availability of these materials at competitive prices could increase our production costs.16Table of ContentsThe manufacture and sale of products and services may expose us to product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability.We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products, services or product candidates are alleged or found to have caused injury, damage or loss. We may in the future be unable to obtain insurance with adequate levels of coverage for potential liability on acceptable terms or claims of this nature may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we can obtain. If we are unable to obtain such insurance or the amounts of any claims successfully brought against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted.If we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the United States Food and Drug Administration and other governmental agencies in the United States and abroad, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil, criminal or monetary penalties.Our operations are subject to regulation by different state and federal government agencies in the United States and other countries, as well as to the standards established by international standards bodies. If we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we could be subject to fines, penalties, criminal prosecution or other sanctions. Some of the products produced by our Human Health segment are subject to regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration and similar foreign and domestic agencies. These regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. If we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution.We are also subject to a variety of laws, regulations and standards that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products, the handling, transportation and manufacture of toxic or hazardous substances, and our business practices in the United States and abroad such as anti-bribery, anti-corruption and competition laws. This requires that we devote substantial resources to maintaining our compliance with those laws, regulations and standards. A failure to do so could result in the imposition of civil, criminal or monetary penalties having a material adverse effect on our operations.Changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses.We compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, and food and drug regulations. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. Any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products.The healthcare industry is highly regulated and if we fail to comply with its extensive system of laws and regulations, we could suffer fines and penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations which could have a significant adverse effect on the results of our business operations.The healthcare industry, including the genetic screening market, is subject to extensive and frequently changing international and United States federal, state and local laws and regulations. In addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse, patient privacy violations and misconduct involving government insurance programs provide federal enforcement personnel with substantial powers and remedies to pursue suspected violations. We believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as the federal government continues to strengthen its position on healthcare matters, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs, and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business.Economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales and profitability.Because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our sales originating outside the United States represented the majority of our total revenue in fiscal year 2013. We anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenue. In addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the United States. Accordingly, our future results of operations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including:•changes in foreign currency exchange rates,•changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets,•longer payment cycles of foreign customers and timing of collections in foreign jurisdictions,17Table of Contents•trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements,•differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax,•adverse income tax audit settlements or loss of previously negotiated tax incentives,•differing business practices associated with foreign operations,•difficulty in transferring cash between international operations and the United States,•difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations,•differing labor laws and changes in those laws,•differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection,•increasing global enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and•differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements.If we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited.Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and scientists, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. The competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees.Our success also depends on our ability to execute leadership succession plans. The inability to successfully transition key management roles could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.If we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems, or if we fail to implement new systems, software and technologies successfully, our business could be adversely affected.We rely on several centralized information technology systems throughout our company to provide products and services, keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. Our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. If we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, security breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage.We have a substantial amount of outstanding debt, which could impact our ability to obtain future financing and limit our ability to make other expenditures in the conduct of our business.Our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including:•requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes, such as acquisitions and stock repurchases;•reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and•exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates.In addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future to meet future financing needs. If we add new debt, the risks described above could increase.Restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may limit our activities.Our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our 5% senior unsecured notes due in 2021 (the "2021 Notes") include restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company. These include restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to:•pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock,18Table of Contents•sell assets,•incur obligations that restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to make dividend or other payments to us,•guarantee or secure indebtedness,•enter into transactions with affiliates, and•consolidate, merge or transfer all, or substantially all, of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.We are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of certain of our existing debt instruments. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. In addition, if we are unable to maintain our investment grade credit rating, our borrowing costs would increase and we would be subject to different and potentially more restrictive financial covenants under some of our existing debt instruments.Any future indebtedness that we incur may include similar or more restrictive covenants. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, our 2021 Notes or any future indebtedness may result in an event of default under those debt instruments, which could permit acceleration of the debt under those debt instruments, and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date under certain circumstances. Our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets.As of December 29, 2013, our total assets included $2.6 billion of net intangible assets. Net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights, core technology and technology licenses, net of accumulated amortization. We test certain of these items—specifically all of those that are considered “non-amortizing”—at least annually for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. All of our amortizing intangible assets are also evaluated for impairment should events occur that call into question the value of the intangible assets.Adverse changes in our business, adverse changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units, or the failure to grow our Human Health and Environmental Health segments may result in impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations.Our share price will fluctuate.Over the last several quarters, stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility. Both the market price and the daily trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations and business prospects. In addition to the risk factors discussed above, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by:•operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors,•the financial performance of the major end markets that we target,•the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us,•announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors, and•changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets.Dividends on our common stock could be reduced or eliminated in the future.On October 24, 2013, we announced that our Board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013 that will be payable in February 2014. On January 24, 2014, we announced that our Board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2014 that will be payable in May 2014. In the future, our Board may determine to reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources. Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments