Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe risks and uncertainties described below are those that we believe are material at this time. These risks and uncertainties, however, are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also significantly impact us. Any of these risks and uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.Loss of our right to exclusively list and trade certain index options and futures could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.We hold exclusive licenses to list securities index options on the S&P 500 Index, the S&P 100 Index, the Russell 2000 Index, as well as others, granted to us by the owners of such indexes and have developed our proprietary VIX methodology. In 2015, approximately 82.9% of our transaction fees were generated by our futures and index options, the overwhelming majority of which were generated by our exclusively-licensed products and products based on the VIX methodology. The bulk of this revenue is attributable to our S&P 500 Index options and VIX Index options and futures. As a result, our operating revenues are dependent in part on the exclusive licenses we hold for these products and our ability to maintain our exclusive VIX methodology. There is a risk, with respect to each of our current exclusive licenses, that the owner of the index may not renew the license with us on an exclusive basis or at all. In the first event, we would be subject to multiple listing in the trading of what is now an exclusive index product, which could result in a loss of market share and negatively impact our profitability. In the second event, we could lose the right to list the index product entirely. The loss or limited use of any of our exclusive index licenses, especially for the S&P 500 Index, for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. See "Business—Products—Strategic Relationships" for a discussion of these licenses and their expiration dates.In addition to the risks related to our exclusive licenses, if we are unable to retain exclusive proprietary rights in the VIX methodology, our volatility products could be subject to multiple listing, which could have a material adverse effect on us.In addition, the European Parliament has adopted legislation that will require European exchanges to provide non-discriminatory access to benchmarks, like index options, and is considering other legislation that may impact the ability of European banks to trade our products. While similar legislation has not been proposed in the U.S., if it were passed, it could cause us to lose exclusivity in our internally developed and licensed index products. The adopted and proposed European legislation may impact our expansion activities in Europe, and may reduce the volume on our exchanges from international customers.Furthermore, our competitors may succeed in providing a market for the trading of index-based or volatility products that are economically similar to those that we offer. It is also possible that a third party may offer trading in index-based products that are the same as those that are the subject of one of our exclusive licenses, but in a jurisdiction in which the index owner cannot require a license or in a manner otherwise not covered by our exclusive license.The value of our exclusive licenses to list securities index options also depends on the continued ability of index owners to require licenses for the trading of options based on their indexes. Although we and the index owners have prevailed in legal actions challenging our rights to exclusively license indexes, we may be subject to legal or other action taken in the future that might impede our ability to exclusively license indexes. In addition, indexes underlying certain of our proprietary products may be licensed for use in OTC options. Options on ETFs and ETNs that have such licenses on these indexes are available for trading. As a result, trading in our proprietary products could decrease due to competitive pressures from these products.We agreed with S&P that it may license one or more clearing agencies to clear OTC options based on the S&P 500 Index that meet certain criteria, and that S&P will compensate us for any transaction cleared under such a license based on the notional value of the transaction. Although we expect these transactions to generate incremental revenue, the clearing of options on the S&P 500 Index that are traded OTC could lead to the migration to the OTC market of some trades that today would be entered into on our exchanges, and there can be no assurance that the revenue gained will replace the revenue lost due to any migration. 19Table of ContentsGeneral economic conditions and other factors beyond our control could significantly reduce demand for our products and services and harm our business.The volume of options and futures transactions and the demand for our products and services are directly affected by economic, political and market conditions in the U.S. and elsewhere in the world that are beyond our control, including:•broad trends in business and finance;•concerns over inflation and wavering institutional or retail confidence levels;•changes in government fiscal and monetary policy and foreign currency exchange rates;•the availability of short-term and long-term funding and capital;•the availability of alternative investment opportunities;•changes in the level of trading activity in underlying instruments;•changes and volatility in the prices of securities;•the level and volatility of interest rates;•unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading; and•concerns about terrorism and war.General economic conditions affect options and futures trading in a variety of ways, from the availability of capital to investor confidence. The economic climate in recent years has been characterized by challenging business, economic and political conditions throughout the world. Adverse changes in the economy may have a negative impact on our revenues by causing a decline in trading volume. Significant declines in trading volumes or demand for market data may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.We operate in a highly regulated industry and may be subject to censures, fines and other legal proceedings if we fail to comply with legal and regulatory obligations.CBOE and C2 are registered national securities exchanges and SROs, and, as such, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the SEC. CFE is a DCM registered with the CFTC and is subject to comprehensive regulation by the CFTC. See "Business—Regulatory Environment and Compliance—Compliance—Securities Industry-CBOE and C2" for information regarding our regulatory responsibilities for CBSX. In addition to the requirements related to operating our markets imposed by the SEC and the CFTC, we also have certain responsibilities for regulating the TPHs that trade on our exchanges. While we have entered into agreements under which FINRA and other SROs with respect to our options exchanges, and NFA with respect to our futures exchange, provide certain regulatory services, we retain responsibility for the regulation of our TPHs. See "Business—Regulatory Responsibilities."Our ability to comply with applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on the establishment and maintenance of appropriate systems and procedures, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, the ability of FINRA and NFA to perform under the regulatory services agreements and our oversight of the work done by FINRA and NFA. The SEC and CFTC have broad powers to audit, investigate and enforce compliance and to punish noncompliance by SROs and DCMs, respectively, pursuant to applicable laws, rules and regulations. If the SEC were to find one of our programs of enforcement or compliance to be deficient, CBOE, C2 or CFE could be the subject of SEC or CFTC investigations and enforcement proceedings that may result in substantial sanctions, including revocation of an exchange's registration as a national securities exchange or DCM. Any such investigations or proceedings, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs, the diversion of resources, including management time, and potential harm to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, CBOE, C2 or CFE may be required to modify or restructure their regulatory functions in response to any changes in the regulatory environment, or they may be required to rely on third parties to perform regulatory and oversight functions, each of which may require us to incur substantial expenses and may harm our reputation if our regulatory services are deemed inadequate. Although CBOE Holdings itself is not an SRO, CBOE Holdings is subject to regulation by the SEC of activities that involve the options exchanges. Specifically, the SEC will exercise oversight over the governance of CBOE Holdings and its relationship with CBOE and C2. See "Business—Regulatory Responsibilities." 20Table of ContentsOur business may be adversely affected by price competition.The business of operating options exchanges is characterized by intense price competition, especially with respect to transaction fees. The pricing model for trade execution for options has changed in response to competitive market conditions and our competitors have adjusted transaction fees and fee structures accordingly, including by opening new exchanges, which allow them to offer multiple pricing models that can appeal to different segments of market participants. These changes have resulted in significant pricing pressures on us, especially on transaction fees and incentives for multiply-listed products. As a result of these pricing pressures, our average rate per multiply-listed options contract may decrease. It is likely that this pressure will continue and even intensify as our competitors continue to seek to increase their share of trading by further reducing their transaction fees or by offering other financial incentives to order providers and liquidity providers to induce them to direct orders to their markets. In addition, one or more competitors may engage in aggressive pricing strategies and significantly decrease or completely eliminate their profit margin for a period of time in order to capture a greater share of trading volume. Some order-providing firms on our exchanges have taken ownership positions in options exchanges that compete with us and such exchanges have given those firms added economic incentives to direct orders to them. Like nearly all of the other options exchanges, our options exchanges charge an options regulatory fee ("ORF") to TPHs based on the total number of customer contracts cleared by that TPH, regardless of the exchange on which the trade is executed. Along with fines and other regulatory fees, the ORF revenues may only be used to support our regulatory functions. We may face competitive pressures to further reduce or not increase the ORFs on our exchanges, and if we are unable to maintain or, if necessary, increase the ORFs, our results of operation may be adversely affected. With respect to our proprietary products, we compete on price against futures exchanges and swap execution facilities that offer similar products and other financial institutions that write over-the-counter derivatives. We also compete on price against certain multiply-listed options products, including SPY, that offer some of the features of our proprietary products. We could lose a substantial percentage of our share of trading if we are unable to price transactions in a competitive manner. Also, our profits could decline if competitive pressures force us to reduce fees. If any of these events occur, our operating results and profitability could be adversely affected. A significant portion of our operating revenues is generated by our transaction-based business. If the amount of trading volume on our exchanges decreases, or the product mix shifts to lower revenue products, our revenues from transaction fees will decrease.In 2015, 2014 and 2013, approximately 71.9%, 70.9% and 69.4% of our operating revenues, respectively, were generated by our transaction-based business. This business is dependent on our ability to attract and maintain order flow, both in absolute terms and relative to other market centers. Our total trading volumes could decline if our market participants reduce their trading activity for any reason, such as:•heightened capital requirements;•regulatory or legislative actions;•reduced access to capital required to fund trading activities; or•significant market disruptions.Over the past few years, a number of legislative actions have been taken, both domestically and internationally, that may cause market participants to be subject to increased capital requirements and additional compliance burdens. These actions, including Basel III, Dodd-Frank and the Collins Amendment to Dodd-Frank, may cause market participants to reduce the number of trades they make on our exchanges.In addition, the transaction fees generated are different based on type of product and other factors, including the type of customer and certain volume discounts. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis—Operating Revenues—Average revenue per contract." If the amount of our trading volume decreases, or the mix traded shifts to our lower revenue per contract products, our revenues from transaction fees will decrease. We can offer no assurance that we would be able to reduce our costs to match the amount of any such decrease. 21Table of ContentsLegislative or regulatory changes affecting the listed options or futures markets could have a material adverse effect on our business.Changes in regulation by the SEC, CFTC, foreign regulators or other government action, including SEC approval of rule filings by other SROs or entities, including OCC, could materially affect our markets. In recent years, the securities and futures industries have been subject to significant regulatory changes as a result of increasing government and public scrutiny in response to the global economic crisis.In 2010, Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act and other legislation. While many of its requirements have been implemented or are in the process of being implemented, some of the provisions in Dodd-Frank that impact our markets require additional action by the SEC or the CFTC. Depending on how the SEC and CFTC interpret and implement these laws, exchanges like ours could be subject to increased competition and additional costs. We could also see reduced trading by our customers due to margin or other requirements placed on them.Under the Collins Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, starting in 2015, U.S. banks are required to use a new approach in order to compute their risk weighted assets, which include exchange-traded options and futures. This, and other rulemaking, may lead to further increases in capital requirements for U.S. bank holding companies, and bank subsidiaries involved in the trading and clearing of derivatives. These increased capital requirements may reduce trading in options and futures due to bank-affiliated broker-dealers reducing their own trading, charging their customers more to trade or reducing the type or number of customers.In 2012, the SEC directed the SROs to submit a plan to create, implement and maintain a consolidated audit trail, which would serve as a comprehensive audit trail of orders that will allow regulators to efficiently and accurately track all activity in Regulation NMS securities in the U.S. market. In addition to increased regulatory obligations, implementation of a consolidated audit trail could result in significant additional expenditures, including to implement any new technology to meet any plan's requirements. The SEC has also adopted Reg SCI and established working groups of exchanges to focus on improving market resiliency. Meeting the requirements of Reg SCI or other regulations or mandates generated by these working groups could result in significant additional expenses, including for technology and compliance.Under European Union (“EU”) regulations, European banks must take punitive capital charges if they transact options or futures through a non-qualifying clearinghouse. OCC, our clearinghouse for options and futures, and other U.S. clearinghouses are not currently recognized as qualified clearinghouses by the EU. The current deadline for the EU to grant equivalence to foreign clearinghouses is June 15, 2016. If OCC is not recognized as a qualified clearinghouse by the EU by June 15, 2016 or a subsequent deadline in the event that the current deadline is extended, we could experience the loss of a significant number of European market participants or a reduction in trading activity on our markets, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.It is also possible that there will be additional legislative and regulatory changes or efforts in the environment in which we operate our businesses, although we cannot predict the nature of these changes or their impact on our business at this time. Actions on any of the specific regulatory issues currently under review in the U.S. and other proposals could have a material impact on our business. For a discussion of the regulatory environment in which we operate and proposed regulatory changes, see "Business—Regulatory Environment and Compliance."In addition, Congress, the SEC, foreign regulators and other regulatory authorities could impose legislative or regulatory changes that could adversely impact the ability of our market participants to use our markets, or participate in the options or futures industry at all. Any such changes could result in the loss of a significant number of market participants or a reduction in trading activity on our markets, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes or proposed changes in regulation may also result in additional costs of compliance and modification of market participants' trading activity on our exchanges. Intense competition could materially adversely affect our market share and financial performance.We compete with a number of entities on several different fronts, including the cost, quality and speed of our trade execution, functionality and ease of use of our trading platform, range of our products and services, our technological innovation and adaptation and our reputation. We compete with futures exchanges and swap execution facilities that offer comparable products and with the over-the-counter market with respect to our proprietary products. With respect to our multiply-listed products, our principal competitors are the twelve other U.S. options exchanges. See the risk factor entitled "Our business may be adversely affected by price competition."Most of the equity options and options on ETPs listed and traded on our exchanges are also listed and traded on other U.S. options exchanges. Changes we have implemented in response to competitive pressures may not be successful in  22Table of Contentsmaintaining or expanding our market share in those products in the future. Likewise, our future responses to these or other competitive developments may not be successful in maintaining or expanding our market share.Some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, technological, personnel and other resources than we do. These factors may enable them to develop similar or more innovative products, to offer lower transaction fees or better execution to their customers or to execute their business strategies more quickly or efficiently than we can.Furthermore, our competitors may:•respond more quickly to competitive pressures;•develop products that compete with our products or are preferred by our customers;•develop and expand their technology and service offerings more efficiently;•provide better, more user-friendly and more reliable technology;•take greater advantage of acquisitions, alliances and other opportunities;•market, promote, bundle and sell their products and services more effectively;•leverage existing relationships with customers and alliance partners more effectively or exploit brand names to market and sell their services; and•exploit regulatory disparities between traditional, regulated exchanges and alternative markets, including over-the-counter markets, that benefit from a reduced regulatory burden and lower-cost business model.The derivatives industry has witnessed both the consolidation of exchange holding companies and the growth in the number of exchanges, with a doubling of the number of options exchanges over the past decade. Consolidation or alliances among our competitors may achieve cost reductions or other increases in efficiency, which may allow them to offer better prices or services than we do. The increase to the number of competitors that we face may result in fragmentation of the market and a reduced market share for our exchanges.If our products, markets, services and technology are not competitive, our financial condition and operating results would be materially harmed. A decline in our transaction fees or any loss of customers would lower our revenues, which would adversely affect our profitability. For a discussion of the competitive environment in which we operate, see "Business—Competition." We depend on third party service providers for certain services that are important to our business. An interruption or cessation of such service by any third party could have a material adverse effect on our business.We depend on a number of service providers, including clearing organizations such as OCC and its member clearing firms; securities information processors such as the CTA and OPRA; regulatory service providers such as FINRA and NFA; the host of our data center; and various vendors of communications and networking products and services. More specifically:•OCC is the sole provider of clearing on all of our exchanges. If it were unable to perform clearing services, or its clearing members were unable or unwilling to clear through OCC, transactions could likely not occur on our markets.•OPRA, UTP Securities Information Processor and the CTA consolidate market information such as last sale reports and quotations. If any of them were unable to provide this information for a sustained period of time, we may be unable to offer trading on our options markets. •We are heavily dependent on technology for our markets, including our data center, which is housed by a third party, and certain communications and networking products and services. If this technology is unavailable, and cannot be replaced in a short time period, we may be unable to operate our markets.•FINRA and NFA provide regulatory services for our options and futures exchanges, respectively, while we retain regulatory responsibilities for such services. If FINRA or NFA stopped providing services, or provided inadequate services, we may be subject to action by the SEC or CFTC, or may have limitations placed upon our markets. We cannot provide assurance that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient manner or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. An interruption or malfunction in or the cessation of an important service by a third party could cause us to halt trading in some or all of our products or our services, or make us unable to conduct other aspects of our business. In addition, our inability to make alternative arrangements in a timely manner, or at all, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. 23Table of ContentsIf one or more of the index providers from which we have licenses or service providers with respect to proprietary products fails to maintain the quality and integrity of their indexes or fails to perform under our agreements with them or if customer preferences change, revenues we generate from trading in these proprietary products may suffer.We are a party to an increasing number of license agreements pursuant to which we may list for trading securities options on various indexes including license agreements that we have with S&P, for the S&P 500 Index and S&P 100 Index, S&P Dow Jones Indices, LLC, for the Dow Jones Industrial Average, LSEG, for more than two dozen FTSE Russell indexes, including the Russell 2000 Index, and MSCI Inc., for six MSCI indexes, including the MSCI EAFE Index and MSCI Emerging Markets Index. These license agreements provide, among other things, that we are authorized to list options on their indexes, and some of the resulting index options are among the most actively traded products at CBOE. The quality and integrity of each of these indexes are dependent on the ability of the index providers to maintain the index, including by means of the calculation and rebalancing of the index, and we are dependent on the index providers for a number of things, including the provision of index data to us. We also rely on index providers to enforce intellectual property rights against unlicensed uses of the indexes and uses of the indexes that infringe on our licenses, as further discussed in risk factor "We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights." Furthermore, some of our agreements concerning our proprietary products provide for the parties to those agreements to provide important services to us. If any of our index providers are unable to maintain the quality and integrity of their indexes, or if any of the index providers or service providers fail to perform their obligations under the agreements, trading in these products, and therefore transaction fees we receive, may be adversely affected or we may not receive the financial benefits of the agreements that we negotiated. If we are unable to fulfill our obligations under the Consent Order, it may have a significant adverse impact on our business. In addition to entering into the Consent Order and agreeing to complete certain undertakings, we may be subject to additional investigations or proceedings by the SEC if the SEC were to find that we did not fulfill our obligations under the Consent Order. See "Business—Regulatory Environment and Compliance—Compliance—Consent Order." Any investigations or proceedings, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs, the diversion of resources, including management time, and potential harm to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results of operations or financial condition.We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights.We rely on patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, the law of the doctrine of misappropriation and contractual protections to protect our proprietary technology, proprietary index and futures products, index methodologies and other proprietary rights. In addition, we rely on the intellectual property rights of our licensors in connection with our listing of exclusively-licensed index and futures products. We and our licensors may not be able to prevent third parties from copying, or otherwise obtaining and using, our intellectual property without authorization, listing our proprietary or exclusively-licensed index products without licenses or otherwise infringing on our rights. We and our licensors may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. We and our licensors may not be successful in this regard. Such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us, diversion of our resources or a reduction in our revenues, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. Any infringement by us on patent rights of others could result in litigation and could have a material adverse effect on our operations.Our competitors, as well as others, have obtained, or may obtain, patents that are related to our technology or the types of products and services we offer or plan to offer. We may not be aware of all patents containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by our products, services or technologies. In addition, some patent applications in the U.S. are confidential until a patent is issued, and therefore we cannot evaluate the extent to which our products and services may be covered or asserted to be covered in pending patent applications. Thus, we cannot be sure that our products and services do not infringe on the rights of others or that others will not make claims of infringement against us. Claims of infringement are not uncommon in our industry. If one or more of our products, services or technologies were determined to infringe a patent held by another party, we may be required to pay damages, stop using, developing or marketing those products, services or technologies, obtain a license from the holders of the patents or redesign those products, services or technologies to avoid infringing the patent. If we were required to stop using, developing or marketing certain products, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially harmed. Moreover, if we were unable to obtain required licenses, we may not be able to redesign our products, services or technologies to avoid infringement, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.  24Table of ContentsComputer and communications systems failures and capacity constraints could harm our reputation and our business.We operate, monitor and maintain our computer systems and networks, including the systems that comprise CBOE Command, the platform for trading on our exchanges and CBOE Vector, the platform that we are developing that is expected to replace CBOE Command. If we are unable to operate, monitor or maintain these systems and networks, program them so that they operate correctly and maintain the integrity of their data, or successfully transition from the CBOE Command platform to the new CBOE Vector platform, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. Although we have a back-up of trading and key corporate systems, the back-up systems or disaster recovery plans may prove to be inadequate in the event of a systems failure or cyber-security breach. Despite the enhancements made to our disaster recovery facilities, there can be no guarantees that we will be able to open an efficient, transparent and liquid marketplace, if we can open at all.With extended trading hours, we have to operate our systems longer and have fewer non-trading hours to address any potential concerns with the systems on which we rely.Our systems may fail, in whole or in part, or may operate slowly, causing one or more of the following: •unanticipated disruption in service to our participants;•failures or delays during peak trading times or times of unusual market volatility;•slower response times and delays in trade execution and processing;•incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; and•distribution of inaccurate or untimely market data to participants who rely on this data in their trading activity.Any of these events may cause:•a loss in transaction or other fees due to the inability to provide services for a time; •requests by market participants or others that we reimburse them for financial loss, either within the constraints of the limited liability provisions of our exchanges' rules or in excess of those amounts;•trading to diminish on our exchanges due to dissatisfaction with the platform; and•one or more of our regulators to investigate or take enforcement action against us. As a consequence of any of these events, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. In addition to other measures, we test our systems to confirm whether they will be able to handle anticipated present and future peak trading volume or times of unusual market volatility. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volume will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volume without failure or degradation of performance. We anticipate that we will need to continue to make significant investments in hardware, software and telecommunications infrastructure to accommodate the increases in traffic. If we cannot increase the capacity and capabilities of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions and to execute our business strategy, our ability to maintain or expand our businesses would be adversely affected. The computer systems and communication networks upon which we rely may be vulnerable to security risks and other disruptions.The secure and reliable operation of our computer systems, our communications networks and the systems of our service providers and market participants, is a critical element of our operations. These systems and communications networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, including the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information, malware and other security problems, as well as to acts of terrorism, natural disasters and other events that are beyond our control. If our security measures are inadequate or if there are interruptions or malfunctions in our systems or communications networks, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially impacted. We may be required to expend significant resources in the event of any real or threatened breaches in security or system failures, including to protect against threatened breaches and to alleviate harm caused by an actual breach, and may suffer harm to our reputation and litigation. Measures we implement for security and otherwise to provide for the confidentiality, integrity and reliability of our systems may prove to be inadequate in preventing system failures or delays in our systems or communications networks, which could lower trading volume and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 25Table of ContentsWe may not be able to maintain operating revenues generated by making trading permits available in exchange for a fee.The right to trade on our exchanges is made available through trading permits for which the user pays a fee. These fees accounted for 8.4% of our operating revenues in 2015. CBOE charges the highest relative trading permit rates in the options industry. We may face pressure from our customers to lower these rates or may see larger firms electing to use fewer permits to access our exchanges. If the demand for trading permits to our exchanges is less than historic levels or if we are unable to maintain permit rates, our ability to generate operating revenues through the granting of permits for trading access would be negatively impacted, which could adversely affect our profitability.Potential conflicts of interest between our for-profit status and our regulatory responsibilities may adversely affect our business.As a for-profit business with regulatory responsibilities, we are responsible for disciplining TPHs for violating our rules, including by imposing fines and sanctions. This may create a conflict of interest between our business interests and our regulatory responsibilities. Any failure by us to fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, increase regulatory scrutiny or cause the SEC or CFTC to take action against us, all of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.Our compliance methods might not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.As the parent company for SROs, we are responsible for maintaining exchanges that comply with securities and futures laws, SEC and CFTC regulations and the rules of the respective exchanges. Our ability to comply with applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on our policies and procedures designed to meet those compliance responsibilities, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel throughout the company. Our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage compliance risks may not be fully effective. Management of legal and regulatory risk requires policies and procedures to properly monitor, record and verify a large number of transactions and events. We cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always be effective or that we will always be successful in monitoring or evaluating the compliance risks to which we are or may be exposed, or that our compliance and internal audit functions would be able to identify any such ineffectiveness. If these policies and procedures are not effective, we may be subject to monetary or other penalties by our regulators.If our risk management methods are not effective, our business, reputation and financial results may be adversely affected.We have methods to identify, monitor and manage our risks. If our methods are not effective or we are not successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed, our business, reputation, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our insurance policies may not provide adequate coverage.Misconduct by our TPHs or others could harm us.We run the risk that our TPHs, other persons who use our markets or our employees may engage in fraud, market manipulation or other misconduct, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation, especially because we are the parent company of SROs. It is not always possible to deter misconduct or market manipulation, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. In addition, misconduct or market manipulation by, or failures of, participants on our exchanges may discourage trading on our exchanges, which could reduce revenues.If we fail to attract or retain highly skilled management and other employees, our business may be harmed.Our future success depends in large part on our management team, which possesses extensive knowledge and managerial skill with respect to the critical aspects of our business. The failure to retain members of our management team could adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively and execute our business strategy. Additionally, effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving our management team and key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. Our business is also dependent on highly skilled employees, especially those who provide specialized services to our clients and oversee our technology functions. Many of these employees have extensive knowledge and experience in highly technical and complex areas of the options trading industry. Because of the complexity and risks associated with our business and the specialized knowledge required to conduct this business effectively, and because the growth in our industry has increased demand for qualified personnel, many of our employees could find employment at other firms if they chose to do so, particularly if we fail to continue to provide competitive levels of compensation. If we fail to retain our current employees, it would be difficult and costly to identify, recruit and train replacements needed to continue to conduct and expand our business.  26Table of ContentsIn particular, failure to retain and attract qualified systems personnel could result in systems errors. Consequently, our reputation may be harmed, we may incur additional costs and our profitability could decline.We may not effectively manage our growth, which could materially harm our business.Over the past five years, we have experienced significantly increased volume on our futures exchange, extended trading hours on our futures exchange and in SPX and VIX options and developed several proprietary products. We expect that our business will continue to grow, which may place a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. We must continually improve our operational, financial and regulatory systems and managerial controls and procedures, and may need to continue to expand, train and manage our workforce. We must also maintain close coordination among our technology, legal, accounting, finance, marketing, sales, regulatory and compliance functions. We cannot assure you that we will manage our growth effectively. If we fail to do so, our business could be materially harmed.Our continued growth will require increased investment by us in technology, facilities, personnel, and financial and management systems and controls. It also will require expansion of our procedures for monitoring and assuring our compliance with applicable regulations, and we will need to integrate, train and manage a growing employee base. The expansion of our existing businesses, any expansion into new businesses and the resulting growth of our employee base will increase our need for internal audit and monitoring processes, which may be more extensive and broader in scope than those we have historically required. We may not be successful in identifying or implementing all of the processes that are necessary. Further, unless our growth results in an increase in our revenues that is proportionally greater than or equal to the increase in our costs associated with this growth, our operating margins will be adversely affected.Our ability to implement or amend rules could be limited or delayed because of regulation, which could negatively affect our ability to implement needed changes.Our options exchanges registered with the SEC must submit proposed rule changes to the SEC for its review and, in many cases, its approval. Even where a proposed rule change may be effective upon filing with the SEC, the SEC retains the right to suspend and disapprove such rule changes. Also, the CFTC may stay or disapprove rules that we file with it for CFE, our futures exchange. The rule review process can be lengthy and can significantly delay the implementation of proposed rule changes that we believe are necessary to the operation of our markets. If the SEC or CFTC delays or does not allow one of our exchanges to implement a rule change, this could negatively affect our ability to make needed changes or implement business activities.Similarly, the SEC must approve amendments to our options exchange subsidiaries' certificates of incorporation and bylaws as well as certain amendments to the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of CBOE Holdings. The SEC may decide not to approve a proposed amendment or may delay such approval in a manner that could negatively affect our ability to make a desired change, which could prevent or delay us from improving the operations of our markets or recognize income from new products. As one of the largest options exchanges in the world and the largest options exchange in the U.S., we may be at a greater risk for a cyber attack and other cyber security risks. The frequency of cyber attacks is increasing in general, and a variety of threat actors have specifically targeted the financial services industry. At the date of this filing, we have no evidence of any material cases of data theft, corruption or destruction of data or compromised customer data. Security breaches may, among other consequences, lead to increased scrutiny by our regulators and have significant costs in terms of cash outlays, business disruption, revenue losses, internal labor, overhead and other expenses. Measures we implement to monitor the environment and protect our infrastructure against security breaches and misappropriation of our intellectual property assets may prove insufficient, which could cause us to lose market participants, experience lower trading volume, incur significant liabilities or have a negative impact on our competitive advantage.Changes in the tax laws and regulations affecting us and our market participants could have a material adverse effect on our business.Legislation may be proposed, both domestically and internationally, that could change the way that our market participants are taxed on the products they trade on our markets. Legislation has been proposed for the implementation of a transaction tax. Further, proposals may include modifications to the taxation of financial products, including repealing the "60/40 Rule," which allows market-makers to pay a blend of capital gains and ordinary tax rates on their income, requiring all derivatives to be marked-to-market, and eliminating the exemption for "qualified covered calls." If such proposals, a transaction tax or other tax change that detrimentally impacts options or futures trading were to become law, they could have a negative impact on the options and futures industry and us by making transactions more costly to market participants, which may reduce trading.  27Table of ContentsIn 2015, the Internal Revenue Service issued and proposed new regulations under Section 871(m) that require dividend tax withholding for certain transactions completed by foreign persons. Unless substantive changes are made to the regulations, there may be a significant reduction in trading by foreign persons, either by their choice or due to brokers refusing to trade options for such persons.In addition to proposed tax changes that could affect our market participants, there has been a trend toward states changing the income tax laws to increase the apportionment factors on which state income taxes are based and becoming more aggressive asserting nexus over corporations that are not domiciled in the state. If state income tax laws change, or if states are successful asserting nexus against us, we may become subject to income taxes in additional states or at a higher rate in the states where income tax filing requirements exists. If this occurs, we may experience a higher effective state tax rate.We selectively explore acquisition opportunities or strategic alliances relating to other businesses, products or technologies. We may not be successful in integrating other businesses, products or technologies with our business. Any such transaction also may not produce the results we anticipate, which could adversely affect us.We selectively explore and pursue acquisition and other opportunities to strengthen our business and grow our company. We may enter into business combination transactions, make acquisitions or enter into strategic partnerships, joint ventures or alliances, any of which may be material. The market for acquisition targets and strategic alliances is highly competitive, which could make it more difficult to find appropriate merger or acquisition opportunities. If we are required to raise capital by incurring debt or issuing additional equity for any reason in connection with a strategic acquisition or investment, financing may not be available or the terms of such financing may not be favorable to us and our stockholders, whose interests may be diluted by the issuance of additional stock.In 2015, we acquired the market data services and trading analytics platforms of Livevol, Inc., we and Environmental Financial Products, LLC launched the American Financial Exchange, an electronic marketplace for small and mid-sized banks to lend and borrow short-term funds, and, in early 2016, we made a majority equity investment in Vest Financial Group Inc., an investment advisor that provides options-centric products.The process of integration may produce unforeseen regulatory issues and operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert the attention of management from the ongoing operation of our business and harm the reputation of the companies. We may not successfully achieve the integration objectives, and we may not realize the anticipated cost savings, revenue growth and synergies in full or at all, or it may take longer to realize them than expected, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or the market price of our common stock.Any decision to pay dividends on our common stock is at the discretion of our board of directors and depends upon the earnings of our operating subsidiaries. Accordingly, there can be no guarantee that we will pay dividends to our stockholders.We have paid quarterly dividends since the restructuring transaction and initial public offering and intend to continue paying regular quarterly dividends to our stockholders. However, any decision to pay dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of the board of directors, which may determine not to declare dividends at all or at a reduced amount. The board's determination to declare dividends will depend upon our profitability and financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and the SEC and other factors that the board deems relevant. As a holding company with no significant business operations of its own, CBOE Holdings depends entirely on distributions, if any, it may receive from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations and pay dividends to its stockholders. If these subsidiaries are not profitable, or even if they are and they determine to retain their profits for use in their businesses, we will be unable to pay dividends to our stockholders.Certain provisions in our organizational documents could enable the board of directors to prevent or delay a change of control.Our organizational documents contain provisions that could block actions that stockholders might find favorable, including discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control or and unsolicited acquisition proposals for us. These include provisions:•prohibiting stockholders from acting by written consent;•requiring advance notice of director nominations and of business to be brought before a meeting of stockholders; and•limiting the persons who may call special stockholders' meetings.In addition, our organizational documents include provisions that: 28Table of Contents•restrict any person from voting or causing the voting of shares of stock representing more than 20% of our outstanding voting capital stock; and•restrict any person from beneficially owning shares of stock representing more than 20% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock.Furthermore, our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights and preferences of these shares without stockholder approval. Any series of our preferred stock is likely to be senior to our common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation rights and, possibly, voting rights. The ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock also could have the effect of discouraging unsolicited acquisition proposals, thus adversely affecting the market price of our common stock.Delaware law makes it difficult for stockholders that have recently acquired a large interest in a corporation to cause the merger or acquisition of the corporation against the directors' wishes. Under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, a Delaware corporation may not engage in any merger or other business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder except in limited circumstances, including by approval of the corporation's board of directors.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments