ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSExcept as set forth below, there have been no material changes in the Company’s risk factors from those disclosed in the Company’s Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2015 and June 30, 2015.Risks Related to the Perrigo ProposalIF COMPLETED, THE OFFER MAY NOT ACHIEVE THE INTENDED BENEFITS OR MAY DISRUPT MYLAN’S PLANS AND OPERATIONS.We cannot assure you that Mylan will be able to successfully integrate the business of Perrigo with the business of Mylan or otherwise realize the expected benefits of the offer. Mylan’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the offer will depend, to a large extent, on Mylan’s ability to integrate Perrigo with the business of Mylan and realize the benefits of the combined business. The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. Mylan’s business may be negatively impacted following the offer if it is unable to effectively manage its expanded operations. The integration will require significant time and focus from management following the offer and may divert attention from the day-to-day operations of the combined business. Additionally, consummation of the offer could disrupt current plans and operations, which could delay the achievement of Mylan’s strategic objectives.The expected synergies and operating efficiencies of the offer may not be fully realized, which could result in increased costs and have a material adverse effect on Mylan’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. In addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management’s attention, among other potential adverse consequences. The difficulties of combining the operations of the businesses include, among others:•the diversion of management’s attention to integration matters;•difficulties in achieving anticipated synergies, operating efficiencies, business opportunities, and growth prospects from combining Perrigo with Mylan;•difficulties in the integration of operations and systems, including enterprise resource planning systems;•difficulties in the integration of employees;•difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company;•challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; and•challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel.Many of these factors will be outside of Mylan’s control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenues, and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could have a material adverse effect on Mylan’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. In addition, even if the operations of Mylan and Perrigo are integrated successfully, Mylan may not realize the full anticipated benefits of the offer, including the synergies, operating efficiencies, or sales or growth opportunities. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame or at all. All of these factors could cause dilution to the earnings per share of the combined business, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the offer, and/or negatively impact the price of the ordinary shares of the combined business.In addition, if Mylan fails to acquire 100% of the Perrigo ordinary shares, such failure could further impact our ability to achieve the intended benefits of the offer and could further disrupt our plans and operations. See “Part II-Item 1A-Risk Factors-Risks Related to the Perrigo Proposal-FAILURE TO ACQUIRE 100% OF THE PERRIGO ORDINARY SHARES MAY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO COMPLETE ANY POST-CLOSING RESTRUCTURING OF PERRIGO AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES. THIS COULD REDUCE OR DELAY THE COST SAVINGS OR REVENUE BENEFITS TO MYLAN” below.81Table of ContentsMYLAN CURRENTLY EXPECTS THE OFFER TO BE ACCRETIVE TO ITS ADJUSTED ANNUAL EARNINGS PER SHARE BY YEAR FOUR FOLLOWING CONSUMMATION THEREOF AND EXPECTS THE OFFER TO BE DILUTIVE PRIOR TO THAT TIME. SUCH DILUTION TO MYLAN’S ANNUAL ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT THE MARKET PRICE OF MYLAN ORDINARY SHARES. Mylan currently expects the offer to be accretive to its adjusted annual earnings per share by year four following the consummation of the offer, assuming all anticipated annual pre-tax operational synergies from the combination of at least $800 million are fully realized, and expects the offer to be dilutive to its adjusted annual earnings per share prior to that time. This preliminary estimate is based on certain assumptions including the following: (i) that the acquisition will be consummated; (ii) that there will be no material impact on Mylan arising from any divestitures or other restrictions required by competition authorities; (iii) that there will be no material change to the market dynamics affecting Mylan and/or Perrigo following the consummation of the acquisition; and (iv) that there will be no material change to exchange rates following the consummation of the acquisition, and may change materially. Mylan could also encounter additional transaction-related costs or other factors such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the offer or the difficulty of managing a larger company. All of these factors could increase or lengthen the expected dilutive effect of the offer to Mylan’s adjusted annual earnings per share, or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the offer to Mylan’s adjusted annual earnings per share, and cause a decrease in the market price of Mylan ordinary shares. See also “Part II-Item 1A-Risk Factors-Risks Related to the Perrigo Proposal-FAILURE TO ACQUIRE 100% OF THE PERRIGO ORDINARY SHARES MAY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO COMPLETE ANY POST-CLOSING RESTRUCTURING OF PERRIGO AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES. THIS COULD REDUCE OR DELAY THE COST SAVINGS OR REVENUE BENEFITS TO MYLAN” below. MYLAN WILL HAVE SIGNIFICANT ADDITIONAL INDEBTEDNESS WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL POSITION AND PREVENT US FROM FULFILLING OUR OBLIGATIONS WITH RESPECT TO SUCH INDEBTEDNESS. ANY REFINANCING OF THIS DEBT COULD BE AT SIGNIFICANTLY HIGHER INTEREST RATES. MYLAN’S SUBSTANTIAL INDEBTEDNESS COULD LEAD TO ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES.Mylan’s increased indebtedness following the consummation of the offer and a compulsory acquisition could have adverse consequences, including but not limited to:•increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes;•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, challenges and opportunities, and changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate;•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements and other financing needs;•increasing our vulnerability to increases in interest rates in general because a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates; and•placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt.In addition, although the combined company is expected to maintain an investment grade credit rating, Mylan’s increased indebtedness following the consummation of the offer and a compulsory acquisition could result in a downgrade in the credit rating of Mylan or any indebtedness of Mylan or its subsidiaries. Furthermore, the offer for Perrigo ordinary shares is conditional upon valid acceptances being received (and not, where permitted, withdrawn) in respect of more than 50% of Perrigo ordinary shares (on a fully diluted basis). This acceptance condition, which is lower than the 80% acceptance condition that would ensure Mylan could complete a compulsory acquisition following the offer, could result in a downgrade in the credit rating of Mylan or any indebtedness of Mylan or its subsidiaries. A downgrade in the credit rating of Mylan or any indebtedness of Mylan or its subsidiaries could increase the cost of further borrowings or refinancings of such indebtedness, limit access to sources of financing in the future or lead to other adverse consequences. The terms of Mylan’s indebtedness today impose, and any additional indebtedness we incur in the future, or may impose, significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay certain dividends, prepay other indebtedness, sell assets, incur certain liens, enter into agreements with our affiliates and restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, merge or consolidate. In addition, certain of our credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization facility, as well as certain agreements governing Perrigo’s indebtedness, require us to maintain specified financial ratios. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios could result in a default under the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders 82Table of Contentscould elect to declare our indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price.FAILURE TO ACQUIRE 100% OF THE PERRIGO ORDINARY SHARES MAY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO COMPLETE ANY POST-CLOSING RESTRUCTURING OF PERRIGO AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES. THIS COULD REDUCE OR DELAY THE COST SAVINGS OR REVENUE BENEFITS TO MYLAN.To effect a compulsory acquisition of the remaining Perrigo ordinary shares, we will need to first obtain acceptances in respect of at least 80% of the Perrigo ordinary shares to which the offer relates. The offer is conditional upon valid acceptances being received (and not, where permitted, withdrawn) in respect of more than 50% of Perrigo ordinary shares (on a fully diluted basis). Therefore, we could complete the offer without being able to acquire compulsorily the remaining Perrigo ordinary shares we do not own.In such case, and assuming Mylan does not seek to acquire the remaining Perrigo ordinary shares, we intend to operate Perrigo as a controlled subsidiary of Mylan under Irish law and we will be entitled to control the composition of Perrigo’s board of directors, as well as Perrigo’s management team, and effectively control Perrigo’s operations on a day-to-day basis. Consequently, we believe that we would have the power to effect a post-closing restructuring of Perrigo and its subsidiaries, although the failure to acquire 100% of the Perrigo ordinary shares could potentially subject our post-closing plans for Perrigo to risk of delay and may require us to pursue different restructuring steps than we would have pursued if we owned 100% of Perrigo’s ordinary shares.We also believe that we would be able to cause Perrigo to take certain actions required to realize the anticipated operational synergies described under “The Transaction-Plans for Perrigo” in the Offer to Exchange/Prospectus. The arrangements necessary to implement the operational synergies between Mylan and Perrigo would need to be in this case on an arms-length basis, and this additional requirement may require us to pursue different steps to realize operational synergies than we would pursue if we owned 100% of Perrigo’s ordinary shares and could potentially result in a delay in realizing the anticipated operational synergies from the acquisition of Perrigo. In addition, since Mylan would not have acquired (and paid for) 100% of the Perrigo ordinary shares, Mylan shareholders may not realize the full financial benefits of operational synergies from the combination as certain of these financial benefits may be shared by the minority shareholders of Perrigo. Since Mylan has not had due diligence access to Perrigo or its business or management, Mylan has not yet formulated detailed restructuring plans and plans for realizing operational synergies and at this time cannot determine with more specificity the effect of not acquiring 100% of Perrigo’s ordinary shares on its restructuring and synergy plans.Mylan has carefully reviewed Perrigo’s publicly available information in connection with estimating the annual pre-tax operational synergies from the offer and believes based on its prior experience integrating other acquired companies, including Mylan Laboratories Limited, which Mylan acquired less than 100% of in 2007 and operated as a controlled subsidiary until 2015, that it can successfully manage the additional risks described above and the combination can realize the anticipated operational synergies from the offer. Accordingly, the possibility of operating Perrigo as a controlled subsidiary does not change any of Mylan’s key assumptions regarding the categories of operational synergies available or the potential opportunity within each category, and Mylan continues to believe that the offer will result in at least $800 million of annual pre-tax operational synergies by the end of year four following consummation of the offer.In addition, if we own less than 100% of Perrigo after completion of the offer, our resulting combined structure might be less efficient and we may not be able to carry out joint cash pooling or other intra-company transactions with Perrigo and its subsidiaries on favorable terms or at all. This may adversely affect our ability to achieve the expected amount of operational and other synergies after the offer is completed.ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATIONAmendments to Credit AgreementsAmendment No. 1 to 2015 Term Credit AgreementOn October 28, 2015, the Company entered into Amendment No. 1 (the “2015 Term Amendment”) to the 2015 Term Credit Agreement, among the Company, Mylan Inc. and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, DNB Bank ASA Grand Cayman Branch and PNC Bank, National Association, as lenders, and PNC Bank, National Association, as the administrative agent. The 2015 Term Amendment clarifies that the 83Table of Contentsfinancial covenant modifications that are triggered upon the closing of the Perrigo Proposal will go into effect when the Company acquires a majority of shares in the capital of Perrigo. The 2015 Term Amendment also amends the event of default provisions to provide that any “change of control” under any indebtedness of Perrigo or its subsidiaries that is triggered as a result of the closing of the Perrigo Proposal will not result in an event of default so long as the Company or its subsidiaries refinances or amends such indebtedness within 60 days of the closing of the Perrigo Proposal.Amendment No. 2 to Revolving Credit AgreementOn October 28, 2015, the Company entered into Amendment No. 2 (the “Revolving Amendment No. 2”) to the Revolving Credit Agreement, among the Company, Mylan Inc. and Bank of America, N.A., PNC Bank, National Association, Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, ING Bank N.V., Dublin Branch, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., DNB Bank ASA Grand Cayman Branch, Citibank, N.A., HSBC Bank USA N.A., Goldman Sachs Bank USA and Credit Suisse AGg Cayman Islands Branch, as lenders, and Bank of America, N.A., as the administrative agent. The Revolving Amendment No. 2 clarifies that the financial covenant modifications that are triggered upon the closing of the Perrigo Proposal will go into effect when the Company acquires a majority of shares in the capital of Perrigo. The Revolving Amendment No. 2 also amends the event of default provisions to provide that any “change of control” under any indebtedness of Perrigo or its subsidiaries that is triggered as a result of the closing of the Perrigo Proposal will not result in an event of default so long as the Company or its subsidiaries refinances or amends such indebtedness within 60 days of the closing of the Perrigo Proposal.Amendment No. 2 to 2014 Term Credit AgreementOn October 28, 2015, the Company entered into Amendment No. 2 (the “Term Amendment No. 2”) to the 2014 Term Loan, among the Company, Mylan Inc. and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., PNC Bank, National Association and Bank of America, N.A, as lenders, and Bank of America, N.A., as the administrative agent. The Term Amendment No. 2 clarifies that the financial covenant modifications that are triggered upon the closing of the Perrigo Proposal will go into effect when the Company acquires a majority of shares in the capital of Perrigo. The Term Amendment No. 2 also amends the event of default provisions to provide that any “change of control” under any indebtedness of Perrigo or its subsidiaries that is triggered as a result of the closing of the Perrigo Proposal will not result in an event of default so long as the Company or its subsidiaries refinances or amends such indebtedness within 60 days of the closing of the Perrigo Proposal.The administrative agents and the lenders have, from time to time, performed, are currently performing and may in the future perform, various financial advisory and commercial and investment banking services for the Company, for which they received or will receive customary fees and expenses.The foregoing descriptions do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the Term Amendment No. 2, the Revolving Amendment No. 2 and the 2015 Term Amendment, which are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.4, 10.5 and 10.6, respectively, and are incorporated by reference herein.Chief Accounting OfficerOn October 27, 2015, the Board appointed Paul Campbell to Chief Accounting Officer of the Company (“CAO”). Mr. Campbell will serve in this role in addition to his current position as Senior Vice President and Controller. Mr. Campbell, age 49, will assume the duties of CAO on November 1, 2015. Mr. Campbell will hold the office of CAO until his successor is appointed, or until his death, resignation, or removal.Mr. Campbell, has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President and Controller since May 26, 2015 and has held roles of increasing responsibility at Mylan Inc. since 2002, including Head of Global Operations Finance, Producers from March 2014 to May 2015; Vice President, Global Operations Finance from September 2012 to March 2014; and Vice President, Global Tech Operations Finance from January 2010 to September 2012. Prior to 2010, Mr. Campbell held various other positions at Mylan Inc., including Director of Internal Audit, Vice President Global Accounting and Reporting and Vice President and Assistant Controller. In connection with Mr. Campbell’s appointment as CAO, on November 1, 2015, John D. Sheehan, the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will be replaced as principal accounting officer, a position which he has held since February 27, 2015 in connection with the completion of the EPD Transaction. Mr. Sheehan will remain Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company.84Table of ContentsMr. Campbell is party to an employment agreement with Mylan Inc., effective as of May 1, 2011 (the “Employment Agreement”). The Employment Agreement had an initial term through January 31, 2014, but is subject to automatic one year renewals unless earlier terminated. In connection with his appointment to CAO, Mr. Campbell’s base salary was increased from $348,400 to $375,000 and his target annual incentive award opportunity for 2015 was increased from 50% to 75% of his base salary or $281,250. Mr. Campbell is also eligible to receive discretionary long-term incentive awards under the Company’s Amended and Restated 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan and to participate in other benefit plans sponsored by the Company and its subsidiaries, and his target long-term incentive award opportunity going forward increased from 57.5% of his base salary to 100% of his base salary in connection with his appointment to CAO. Mr. Campbell is also eligible to receive other benefits consistent with Company employees at this level. In the event of Mr. Campbell’s termination of employment without “cause” (as defined in the Employment Agreement and which includes non-renewal of the Employment Agreement), Mr. Campbell will be entitled to receive, in addition to his accrued benefits, continued payment of his base salary, continued coverage under the Company’s health and welfare plans and outplacement services for a period of twelve months following the date of termination. In the event of Mr. Campbell’s termination of employment due to “disability” (as defined in the Employment Agreement), Mr. Campbell will be entitled to receive a supplemental disability payment from the Company for a period of six months equal to the difference between his base salary and amounts received under the disability policy maintained by the Company and its subsidiaries.Angela Campbell, Mr. Campbell’s spouse, has held roles of increasing responsibility at Mylan Inc. since June 2007 and is currently serving as Senior Director, Global Mobility, a position she has held since March 2014. Ms. Campbell earned approximately $190,289 in compensation from Mylan Inc. in 2014 and her total target direct compensation in 2015 is expected to be $237,120 (which includes a base salary of $158,080, a target annual incentive award of $47,424, and a target long-term incentive award opportunity of $31,616).85Table of ContentsITEM 6. EXHIBITS