ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSExcept as set forth below, there have been no material changes in the Company’s risk factors from those disclosed in the Company’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2015.Risks Related to the Business of MylanWE EXPECT TO BE TREATED AS A NON-U.S. CORPORATION FOR U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES. ANY CHANGES TO THE TAX LAWS OR CHANGES IN OTHER LAWS (INCLUDING UNDER APPLICABLE INCOME TAX TREATIES), REGULATIONS, RULES, OR INTERPRETATIONS THEREOF APPLICABLE TO INVERTED COMPANIES AND THEIR AFFILIATES, WHETHER ENACTED BEFORE OR AFTER THE EPD TRANSACTION, MAY MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT US.Under current U.S. law, we believe that we should not be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the EPD Transaction. Changes to Section 7874 of the Code or, to the U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, or interpretations thereof, or to other relevant tax laws (including applicable income tax treaties), could affect our status as a non-U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes and the tax consequences to us and our affiliates. Any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application, and may apply even if enacted or promulgated now that the EPD Transaction has closed. If we were to be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or if the relevant tax laws (including applicable income tax treaties) change, we would likely be subject to significantly greater U.S. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-U.S. corporation or if the relevant tax laws (including applicable income tax treaties) had not changed.On August 5, 2014, the U.S. Treasury Department announced that it is reviewing a broad range of authorities for possible administrative actions that could limit the ability of a U.S. corporation to complete a transaction in which it becomes a subsidiary of a non-U.S. corporation (commonly known as an “inversion transaction”) or reduce certain tax benefits after an inversion transaction takes place. On September 22, 2014, the U.S. Treasury Department issued a notice announcing its intention to promulgate certain regulations that will apply to inversion transactions completed on or after September 22, 2014.In the notice, the U.S. Treasury Department also announced that it expects to issue additional guidance to further limit certain inversion transactions. In particular, it is considering regulations that may limit income tax treaty eligibility and the ability of certain foreign-owned U.S. corporations to deduct certain interest payments (so-called “earnings stripping”). Any such future guidance will apply prospectively, but to the extent it applies only to companies that have completed inversion transactions, it will specifically apply to companies that have completed such transactions on or after September 22, 2014. Additionally, there have been recent legislative proposals intended to limit or discourage inversion transactions and on May 20, 2015, the U.S. Treasury Department announced its intention to revise certain provisions of the model income tax treaties, which, if ultimately adopted by the U.S. and relevant jurisdictions, could reduce potential tax benefits for us and our affiliates by imposing U.S. withholding taxes on particular payments from our U.S. affiliates to related and unrelated foreign persons. Any such future regulatory or legislative actions regarding inversion transactions or any other changes in relevant tax laws (including under applicable income tax treaties), if taken, could apply to us, could disadvantage us as compared to other corporations, including non-U.S. corporations that have completed inversion transactions prior to September 22, 2014, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price.AN INABILITY TO IDENTIFY OR SUCCESSFULLY BID FOR SUITABLE ACQUISITION TARGETS, OR CONSUMMATE AND EFFECTIVELY INTEGRATE RECENT AND FUTURE POTENTIAL ACQUISITIONS, OR TO EFFECTIVELY DEAL WITH AND RESPOND TO UNSOLICITED BUSINESS PROPOSALS COULD LIMIT OUR FUTURE GROWTH AND HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, CASH FLOWS, AND/OR ORDINARY SHARE PRICE. 76Table of ContentsWe intend to continue to seek to expand our product line and/or business platform organically as well as through complementary or strategic acquisitions of other companies, products, or assets or through joint ventures, licensing agreements, or other arrangements. Acquisitions or similar arrangements may prove to be complex and time consuming and require substantial resources and effort. We may compete for certain acquisition targets with companies having greater financial resources than us or other advantages over us that may hinder or prevent us from acquiring a target company or completing another transaction, which could also result in significant diversion of management time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs. If an acquisition is consummated, the integration of such acquired business, product, or other assets into us may also be complex, time consuming, and result in substantial costs and risks. The integration process may distract management and/or disrupt our ongoing businesses, which may adversely affect our relationships with customers, employees, partners, suppliers, regulators, and others with whom we have business or other dealings. In addition, there are operational risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses. These risks include, but are not limited to, difficulties in achieving or inability to achieve identified or anticipated financial and operating synergies, cost savings, revenue synergies, and growth opportunities; difficulties in consolidating or inability to effectively consolidate information technology and manufacturing platforms, business applications, and corporate infrastructure; the impact of pre-existing legal and/or regulatory issues, such as quality and manufacturing concerns, among others; the risks that acquired companies or businesses do not operate to the same quality, manufacturing, or other standards as us; the impacts of substantial indebtedness and assumed liabilities; challenges associated with operating in new markets; and the unanticipated effects of export controls, exchange rate fluctuations, domestic and foreign political conditions, and/or domestic and foreign economic conditions.In addition, in April 2015 we received an unsolicited and subsequently withdrawn non-binding expression of interest from Teva to acquire all of our outstanding shares and may receive similar proposals in the future. Such unsolicited business proposals may not be consistent with or enhancing to our financial, operational, or market strategies (which we believe have proven to be successful) and may not further the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders, including employees, creditors, customers, suppliers, relevant patient populations and communities in which Mylan operates and may jeopardize the sustainable success of Mylan’s business. However, the evaluation of and response to such unsolicited business proposals may nevertheless distract management and/or disrupt our ongoing businesses, which may adversely affect our relationships with customers, employees, partners, suppliers, regulators, and others with whom we have business or other dealings.We may be unable to realize synergies or other benefits, including tax savings, expected to result from acquisitions, joint ventures, or other transactions or investments we may undertake, or we may be unable to generate additional revenue to offset any unanticipated inability to realize these expected synergies or benefits. Realization of the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or other transactions could take longer than expected, and implementation difficulties, unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, market factors, or deterioration in domestic and global economic conditions could reduce the anticipated benefits of any such transactions. We also may inherit legal, regulatory, and other risks that occurred prior to the acquisition, whether known or unknown to us. Any one of these challenges or risks could impair our growth and ability to compete, require us to focus additional resources on integration of operations rather than more profitable activities, require us to reexamine our business strategy, or otherwise cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price.Risks Related to the Perrigo ProposalMYLAN CURRENTLY EXPECTS THE PERRIGO TRANSACTION TO BE ACCRETIVE TO ITS ADJUSTED ANNUAL EARNINGS PER SHARE BY YEAR FOUR FOLLOWING CONSUMMATION THEREOF AND EXPECTS THE PERRIGO TRANSACTION TO BE DILUTIVE PRIOR TO THAT TIME. SUCH DILUTION TO MYLAN’S ANNUAL ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT THE MARKET PRICE OF MYLAN ORDINARY SHARES. Mylan currently expects the acquisition of Perrigo (the “Perrigo Acquisition”), including the issuance of Mylan ordinary shares to Perrigo ordinary shareholders as part of the consideration for the Perrigo Acquisition (the “Share Issuance” and, together with the Perrigo Acquisition, the “Perrigo Transaction”), to be accretive to its adjusted annual earnings per share by year four following the consummation of the Perrigo Transaction, assuming all anticipated annual pre-tax operational synergies of at least $800 million are fully realized, and expects the Perrigo Transaction to be dilutive to its adjusted annual earnings per share prior to that time. This preliminary estimate of synergies is based on certain assumptions including the following: (i) that the Perrigo Transaction will be consummated; (ii) that there will be no material impact on Mylan arising from 77Table of Contentsany divestitures or other restrictions required by competition authorities; (iii) that there will be no material change to the market dynamics affecting Mylan and/or Perrigo following the consummation of the Perrigo Transaction; and (iv) that there will be no material change to exchange rates following the consummation of the Perrigo Transaction, and may change materially. Mylan could also encounter additional transaction-related costs or other factors such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the Perrigo Transaction or the difficulty of managing a larger company. All of these factors could increase or lengthen the expected dilutive effect of the Perrigo Transaction to Mylan’s adjusted annual earnings per share, or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the Perrigo Transaction to Mylan’s adjusted annual earnings per share, and cause a decrease in the market price of Mylan ordinary shares. MYLAN WILL HAVE SIGNIFICANT ADDITIONAL INDEBTEDNESS WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL POSITION AND PREVENT US FROM FULFILLING OUR OBLIGATIONS WITH RESPECT TO SUCH INDEBTEDNESS. ANY REFINANCING OF THIS DEBT COULD BE AT SIGNIFICANTLY HIGHER INTEREST RATES. MYLAN’S SUBSTANTIAL INDEBTEDNESS COULD LEAD TO ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES.Mylan’s increased indebtedness following the consummation of the Perrigo Transaction could have adverse consequences, including but not limited to:•increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes;•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, challenges and opportunities, and changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate;•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements and other financing needs;•increasing our vulnerability to increases in interest rates in general because a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates; and•placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt.In addition, although the combined company is expected to maintain an investment grade credit rating, Mylan’s increased indebtedness following the consummation of the Perrigo Transaction could result in a downgrade in the credit rating of Mylan or any indebtedness of Mylan or its subsidiaries. Furthermore, the offer for Perrigo ordinary shares is conditional upon valid acceptances being received (and not, where permitted, withdrawn) in respect of not less than 80% of Perrigo ordinary shares (on a fully diluted basis), but this percentage may be reduced by Mylan to any number of Perrigo shares representing more than 50% of the voting rights then exercisable at a general meeting of Perrigo. Lowering of the 80% acceptance condition could result in a downgrade in the credit rating of Mylan or any indebtedness of Mylan or its subsidiaries. A downgrade in the credit rating of Mylan or any indebtedness of Mylan or its subsidiaries could increase the cost of further borrowings or refinancings of such indebtedness, limit access to sources of financing in the future or lead to other adverse consequences. The terms of Mylan’s indebtedness today impose, and any additional indebtedness we incur in the future may impose, significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay certain dividends, prepay other indebtedness, sell assets, incur certain liens, enter into agreements with our affiliates and restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, merge or consolidate. In addition, certain of our credit facilities and our accounts receivable securitization facility, as well as certain agreements governing Perrigo’s indebtedness, require us to maintain specified financial ratios. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios could result in a default under the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare our indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price.78Table of ContentsFAILURE TO ACQUIRE 100% OF THE PERRIGO ORDINARY SHARES MAY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO COMPLETE ANY POST-CLOSING RESTRUCTURING OF PERRIGO AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES. THIS COULD REDUCE OR DELAY THE OPERATIONAL OR OTHER SYNERGIES TO MYLAN.The offer is conditional upon valid acceptances of our offer being received (and, where permitted, not withdrawn) of not less than 80% of Perrigo ordinary shares (on a fully diluted basis), but this percentage may be reduced by Mylan to any number of Perrigo shares representing more than 50% of the voting rights therein exercisable at a general meeting of Perrigo. Were the 80% acceptance condition to be reduced, we could complete the Perrigo Acquisition but would not be able to acquire compulsorily the remaining Perrigo ordinary shares we do not own. We would then be entitled to exercise control of Perrigo and affect the composition of Perrigo’s board of directors. However, depending on the percentage of outstanding Perrigo ordinary shares acquired, it may take longer and be more difficult to complete any post-closing restructuring, and the full amount of the expected operational and other synergies identified for Mylan may not be obtained or may only be obtained over a longer period of time. In addition, if we own less than 100% of Perrigo after completion of the Perrigo Transaction, our resulting combined structure might be less efficient and we may not be able to carry out joint cash pooling or other intra-company transactions with Perrigo and its subsidiaries on favorable terms or at all. This may adversely affect our ability to achieve the expected amount of operational and other synergies after the Perrigo Transaction is completed.ALTHOUGH MYLAN HAS COMMITTED TO MAKE ANY AND ALL DIVESTITURES AND OTHER SUBSTANTIVE ACTIONS, NECESSARY OR REQUIRED, IN ORDER TO CLEAR OR APPROVE THE PERRIGO ACQUISITION UNDER THE HSR ACT, MYLAN MUST OBTAIN REQUIRED APPROVALS AND CONSENTS TO CONSUMMATE THE PERRIGO TRANSACTION, WHICH, IF DELAYED OR NOT GRANTED, MAY JEOPARDIZE OR DELAY THE CONSUMMATION OF THE PERRIGO TRANSACTION, RESULT IN ADDITIONAL EXPENDITURES OF MONEY AND RESOURCES, AND/OR REDUCE THE ANTICIPATED BENEFIT OF THE PERRIGO TRANSACTION.The Perrigo Transaction is subject to customary closing conditions. These closing conditions include, among others, the effectiveness of the registration statement to register the issuance of the Mylan ordinary shares in the Share Issuance and the receipt of the relevant approvals under the antitrust and competition laws of certain countries under which filings or approvals are required. Mylan has committed to take all actions, including making regulatory submissions, responding to information requests and doing everything necessary to obtain a decision from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, including making any and all divestitures and other substantive actions necessary or required in order to ensure the HSR Pre-Condition, as defined below, is satisfied. The making of the offer to acquire all of the outstanding Perrigo ordinary shares is pre-conditioned on one of the following having occurred: (i) the expiration or termination of all applicable waiting periods (including any extensions thereof) under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, of the United States and the rules and regulations thereunder (the “HSR Act”), (ii) a final decision to clear or approve the consummation of the Perrigo Acquisition under the HSR Act having been obtained, irrespective of the conditions attaching thereto, or (iii) September 13, 2015 (the “HSR Pre-Condition”). The governmental agencies from which Mylan will seek certain of these approvals have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations. As a condition to their approval of the Perrigo Transaction, agencies may impose requirements, limitations, or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of Mylan’s businesses after closing. These requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures, or restrictions could delay the consummation of the Perrigo Transaction or may reduce the anticipated benefits of the Perrigo Transaction. Further, no assurance can be given that the required closing conditions will be satisfied, and, if all required consents and approvals are obtained and the closing conditions are satisfied, no assurance can be given as to the terms, conditions, and timing of the consents and approvals. Mylan has not made a formal unconditional commitment to take any and all actions as may be necessary or required in order to ensure that non-U.S. antitrust and competition approvals, including any such approvals as may be required in Mexico, Russia and Ukraine, are obtained. However, pursuant to the legally binding process under the Irish Takeover Rules to commence its offer for Perrigo in order to effect the Perrigo Acquisition, Mylan is generally required to commit to take, and take, any and all steps necessary to avoid or eliminate impediments or objections, if any, that may be asserted by governmental agencies from which Mylan seeks consents or approvals, including any divestitures needed to obtain any antitrust or competition approvals, provided, in the case of any non-U.S. antitrust and competition approvals, it is a condition to the Perrigo Acquisition that the terms and conditions of such antitrust and competition approvals must be acceptable or reasonably satisfactory to Mylan. Although we do not expect that any required divestitures will be material to the combined company, we cannot assure you that no such divestitures will be material. If Mylan agrees to any material requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures, or restrictions in order to obtain any approvals required to consummate the Perrigo Acquisition these requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions could adversely affect Mylan’s ability to integrate Mylan’s operations with Perrigo or reduce the anticipated benefits of the Perrigo Acquisition. This could delay the consummation of the Perrigo Acquisition or have a material adverse effect on Mylan’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 79Table of ContentsMYLAN HAS NOT HAD ACCESS TO PERRIGO’S NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION. THEREFORE, MYLAN MAY BE SUBJECT TO UNKNOWN LIABILITIES OF PERRIGO. To date, Mylan has conducted a due diligence review based only on Perrigo’s publicly available information. The consummation of the Perrigo Transaction may constitute a default, or an event that, with or without notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default, or result in the termination, cancellation, acceleration or other change of any right or obligation (including, without limitation, any payment obligation) under Perrigo’s agreements that are not publicly available. As a result, after the consummation of the Perrigo Transaction, Mylan may be subject to unknown liabilities, or other unknown risks relating to the business and operations, of Perrigo, which may have a material adverse effect on Mylan’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. In respect of all information relating to Perrigo presented in, incorporated by reference into or omitted from, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, Mylan has relied upon publicly available information, including information publicly filed by Perrigo with the SEC. Although Mylan has no knowledge that would indicate that any statements contained herein regarding Perrigo’s condition, including its financial or operating condition, based upon such publicly available information are inaccurate, incomplete or untrue, Mylan was not involved in the preparation of such information. Any financial, operating or other information regarding Perrigo that may be detrimental to Mylan following Mylan’s acquisition of Perrigo that has not been publicly disclosed by Perrigo, or errors in Mylan’s estimates, may have a material adverse effect on Mylan’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or share price or the benefits Mylan expects to achieve through the consummation of the Perrigo Transaction.CURRENT MYLAN SHAREHOLDERS WILL HAVE A REDUCED OWNERSHIP AND VOTING INTEREST AFTER THE CONSUMMATION OF THE PERRIGO TRANSACTION AND WILL EXERCISE LESS INFLUENCE OVER THE MANAGEMENT AND POLICIES OF MYLAN AS A RESULT OF THE PERRIGO TRANSACTION.Following the consummation of the Perrigo Transaction, holders of Mylan ordinary shares will own the same number of shares of Mylan that they owned in Mylan immediately before consummation of the Perrigo Transaction. Each ordinary share of Mylan, however, will represent a smaller ownership percentage of a larger company. Mylan has assumed that the number of Perrigo ordinary shares outstanding on the date of consummation of the Perrigo Transaction will be the same number reported in Perrigo’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 28, 2015, and that the number of Mylan ordinary shares outstanding on the date of consummation of the Perrigo Transaction will be 491,554,379. Based on these assumptions regarding the number of shares, we expect that, if all Perrigo ordinary shares are acquired pursuant to the Perrigo Transaction, Mylan shareholders will own, in the aggregate, approximately 61% of the outstanding Mylan ordinary shares on a fully diluted basis at the date of the consummation of the Perrigo Transaction and former Perrigo shareholders will own, in the aggregate, approximately 39% of the outstanding Mylan ordinary shares on a fully diluted basis at the date of the consummation of the Perrigo Transaction. As a result, current Mylan shareholders will have less influence over the management and policies of Mylan than they do now.CERTAIN SHAREHOLDERS OWN A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR ORDINARY SHARES AND MAY ENGAGE IN TRANSACTIONS THAT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR ORDINARY SHARES.Certain of our shareholders own a significant portion of our ordinary shares, and any sale of a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the open market by one or more of such shareholders may lower the market price of our ordinary shares. In particular, on June 19, 2015, Teva publicly disclosed that it had acquired approximately 4.61% of outstanding Mylan ordinary shares, which Teva acquired to further its unsolicited expression of interest in acquiring Mylan. On July 27, 2015, Teva announced its entry into an agreement to acquire the Generic Drug Unit of Allergan plc and the withdrawal of its unsolicited expression of interest in acquiring Mylan. We believe that, as of the date of this report, Teva continues to hold such percentage of Mylan ordinary shares. We do not know what plans, if any, Teva has with respect to its ownership of our ordinary shares. In the event that Teva sells a substantial number of its Mylan ordinary shares in a short timeframe, whether in a single transaction or in a series of transactions, such sale or sales could adversely affect the market price of Mylan ordinary shares.MYLAN MAY AMEND OR WAIVE ONE OR MORE OF THE CONDITIONS TO THE ACQUISITION WITHOUT RE-SOLICITING MYLAN SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL. Mylan may amend or waive conditions to and other terms of the offer for Perrigo ordinary shares at any time after the approval of the Perrigo Transaction by Mylan shareholders, except Mylan will not waive the acceptance condition to a level below the minimum threshold of more than 50% required under the Irish Takeover Rules. Mylan will not re-solicit Mylan 80Table of Contentsshareholder approval for any such amendment or waiver, except that Mylan will re-solicit Mylan shareholder approval in the event of an increase (other than in a de minimis amount) in the number of Mylan ordinary shares or other consideration to be received by a Perrigo shareholder in the Perrigo Transaction for each Perrigo ordinary share (including for any such increase in cash paid per Perrigo ordinary share or any extraordinary dividend or share buyback or redemption effected by Perrigo with Mylan’s consent). Mylan believes that any extraordinary dividend or share buyback or redemption effected by Perrigo without Mylan’s consent would be a frustrating action prohibited by the Irish Takeover Rules and Mylan accordingly would first seek to have the Irish Takeover Panel prohibit Perrigo from effecting any such dividend or share buyback or redemption if announced. Mylan also may, with the consent of the Irish Takeover Panel, reduce the value of our offer per Perrigo ordinary share by the per share value of any such extraordinary dividend or share buyback or redemption and proceed with our offer without re-soliciting Mylan shareholder approval. 81Table of ContentsITEM 6. EXHIBITS