ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSExcept as set forth below, there have been no material changes in the Company’s risk factors from those disclosed in Mylan’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, as amended, and Mylan’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2016.Risks Related to the Business of MylanWE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY INCREASED SCRUTINY FROM THIRD PARTIES, INCLUDING GOVERNMENTS, OR NEGATIVE PUBLICITY WITH RESPECT TO MATTERS RELATING TO OUR PRODUCTS AND PRICING PRACTICES, AND OTHER MATTERS RELATED TO THE COMPANY, AND WE HAVE AND MAY CONTINUE TO EXPERIENCE PRICING PRESSURE ON THE PRICE OF CERTAIN OF OUR PRODUCTS DUE TO SOCIAL OR POLITICAL PRESSURE TO LOWER THE COST OF DRUGS, WHICH COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUE AND FUTURE PROFITABILITY.There has been increased press coverage and increased scrutiny from third parties, including regulators, legislative bodies and enforcement agencies, with respect to matters relating to the Company’s business and pricing practices, and other matters related to the Company. This increased press coverage, public scrutiny and protests by some consumers have included assertions of wrongdoing by the Company which, regardless of the factual or legal basis for such assertions, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, investigations, and calls for investigations, by governmental agencies at both the federal and state level and have resulted in, and may continue to result in, claims brought against the Company by governmental agencies or by private parties or by regulators taking other measures that could have a negative effect on the Company’s business. It is not possible at this time to predict the ultimate outcome of any such investigations or claims or what other investigations or lawsuits or regulatory responses may result from such assertions, or their impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. Any such investigation or claim could also result in reputational harm and reduced market acceptance and demand for our products, could harm our ability to market our products in the future, could cause us to incur significant expense, could cause our senior management to be distracted from execution of our business strategy, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.There has also recently been intense publicity regarding the pricing of pharmaceuticals more generally, including publicity and pressure resulting from prices charged by competitors and peer companies for new products as well as price increases by competitors and peer companies on older products that the public has deemed excessive. We have experienced and may continue to experience downward pricing pressure on the price of certain of our products due to social or political pressure to lower the cost of drugs, which could reduce our revenue and future profitability. Accompanying the press and media coverage of pharmaceutical pricing practices and public complaints about the same, there has been increasing U.S. federal and state legislative and enforcement interest with respect to drug pricing. In particular, U.S. federal prosecutors recently issued subpoenas to pharmaceutical companies, including Mylan, seeking information about their drug pricing practices, among other issues, and members of the U.S. Congress have sought information from certain pharmaceutical companies, including Mylan, relating to drug-price increases. Additionally, there have been several recent U.S. Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. For example, in late 2015 the U.S. House of Representatives formed an Affordable Drug Pricing Task Force to advance legislation intended to control pharmaceutical drug costs and investigate pharmaceutical drug pricing. Since then, both the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate have conducted numerous hearings with respect to pharmaceutical drug pricing practices, including in connection with the investigation of specific price increases by several pharmaceutical companies such as Mylan. In addition to the effects of any investigations or claims brought against the Company described above, our revenue and future profitability could also be negatively affected if any such inquiries, of us or 89Table of Contentsof other pharmaceutical companies or the industry more generally, were to result in legislative or regulatory proposals that limit our ability to increase the prices of our products.Any of the events or developments described above could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as on our reputation.ITEM 6. EXHIBITS