ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSExcept as set forth below, there have been no material changes in the Company’s risk factors from those disclosed in Mylan N.V.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, as amended.Risks Related to the Business of MylanWE EXPECT TO BE TREATED AS A NON-U.S. CORPORATION FOR U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES. ANY CHANGES TO THE TAX LAWS OR CHANGES IN OTHER LAWS (INCLUDING UNDER APPLICABLE INCOME TAX TREATIES), REGULATIONS, RULES, OR INTERPRETATIONS THEREOF APPLICABLE TO INVERTED COMPANIES AND THEIR AFFILIATES, WHETHER ENACTED BEFORE OR AFTER THE EPD TRANSACTION, MAY MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT US.Under current U.S. law, we believe that we should not be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the EPD Transaction. Changes to Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) or, to the U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, or interpretations thereof, or to other relevant tax laws (including applicable income tax treaties), could affect our status as a non-U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes and the tax consequences to us and our affiliates. Any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application, and may apply even if enacted or promulgated now that the EPD Transaction has closed. If we were to be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or if the relevant tax laws (including applicable income tax treaties) change, we would likely be subject to significantly greater U.S. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-U.S. corporation or if the relevant tax laws (including applicable income tax treaties) had not changed. On August 5, 2014, the U.S. Treasury Department announced that it is reviewing a broad range of authorities for possible administrative actions that could limit the ability of a U.S. corporation to complete a transaction in which it becomes a subsidiary of a non-U.S. corporation (commonly known as an “inversion transaction”) or reduce certain tax benefits after an inversion transaction takes place. On September 22, 2014 and November 19, 2015, the U.S. Treasury Department issued notices (the “Notices”) announcing its intention to promulgate certain regulations that will apply to inversion transactions completed on or after September 22, 2014. Those regulations were promulgated as temporary U.S. Treasury Regulations on April 4, 2016, and they do not affect our belief that we expect to be treated as a non-U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes.In the Notices, the U.S. Treasury Department also announced that it expected to issue additional guidance to further limit and reduce the benefits of certain inversion transactions. In particular, it stated that it was considering regulations that may limit the ability of certain foreign-owned U.S. corporations to deduct certain interest payments (so-called “earnings stripping”). On April 4, 2016, the U.S. Treasury Department issued such regulations in the form of proposed U.S. Treasury Regulations. Proposed U.S. Treasury Regulations do not currently have the force of law, however, the rules described in the proposed U.S. Treasury Regulations will apply to certain intercompany arrangements entered into on or after April 4, 2016 if and when the regulations are adopted in final form. The U.S. Treasury Department stated that it intends to finalize swiftly such proposed U.S. Treasury Regulations. Additionally, there have been recent legislative proposals intended to limit or discourage inversion transactions and on May 20, 2015, the U.S. Treasury Department announced its intention to revise certain provisions of the model income tax treaties, which, if ultimately adopted by the U.S. and relevant jurisdictions, could reduce potential tax benefits for us and our affiliates by imposing U.S. withholding taxes on particular payments from our U.S. affiliates to related and unrelated foreign persons. Any such future regulatory or legislative actions regarding inversion transactions or any other changes in relevant tax laws (including under applicable income tax treaties), if taken, could apply to us, could disadvantage us as compared to other corporations, including non-U.S. corporations that have completed inversion transactions prior to September 22, 2014, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price.59Table of ContentsRisks Related to the Meda TransactionIF COMPLETED, THE OFFER MAY NOT ACHIEVE THE INTENDED BENEFITS OR MAY DISRUPT MYLAN’S PLANS AND OPERATIONS. There can be no assurance that Mylan will be able to successfully integrate the business of Meda with the business of Mylan or otherwise realize the expected benefits of the Offer. Mylan’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Offer will depend, to a large extent, on Mylan’s ability to integrate Meda with the business of Mylan and realize the benefits of the combined company. The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. Mylan’s business may be negatively impacted following the completion of the Offer if it is unable to effectively manage its expanded operations. The integration will require significant time and focus from management following the completion of the Offer and may divert attention from the day-to-day operations of the combined company. Additionally, completion of the Offer could disrupt current plans and operations, which could delay the achievement of Mylan’s strategic objectives. The expected synergies and operating efficiencies of the Offer may not be fully realized, which could result in increased costs and have a material adverse effect on Mylan’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or share price. In addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management’s attention, among other potential adverse consequences. The difficulties of combining the operations of the businesses include, among others: •the diversion of management’s attention to integration matters; •difficulties in achieving anticipated synergies, operating efficiencies, business opportunities, and growth prospects from combining Meda with Mylan; •difficulties in the integration of operations and systems, including enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) systems; •difficulties in the integration of employees; •difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; •challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; and •challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel. Many of these factors will be outside of Mylan’s control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenues, and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could have a material adverse effect on Mylan’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or share price. In addition, even if the operations of Mylan and Meda are integrated successfully, Mylan may not realize the full anticipated benefits of the Offer, including the synergies, operating efficiencies, or sales or growth opportunities. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame or at all. Any of these factors could cause dilution to the earnings per share of the combined company, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the Offer, and/or negatively impact the price of Mylan ordinary shares after completing the proposed acquisition of Meda. In addition, if Mylan fails to acquire 100% of the Meda shares in the Offer and/or until we complete a compulsory acquisition to acquire any Meda shares not tendered into the Offer, it may be more difficult to achieve the intended benefits of the Offer and could further disrupt our plans and operations. IF GOODWILL OR OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS THAT MYLAN RECORDS IN CONNECTION WITH THE OFFER AND A COMPULSORY ACQUISITION BECOME IMPAIRED, MYLAN COULD HAVE TO TAKE SIGNIFICANT CHARGES AGAINST EARNINGS. In connection with the accounting for the Offer and a compulsory acquisition, Mylan expects to record a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. Under U.S. GAAP, Mylan must assess, at least annually, whether the value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets has been impaired. Amortizing intangible assets will also be assessed for impairment in the event of an impairment indicator. Any reduction or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on Mylan’s business, financial condition, results of operations, shareholder’s equity, and/or share price. 60Table of ContentsWHILE MYLAN CURRENTLY EXPECTS THE OFFER TO BE IMMEDIATELY ACCRETIVE TO ITS ADJUSTED ANNUAL EARNINGS PER SHARE FOLLOWING ITS COMPLETION, A DECREASE OR DELAY IN THE EXPECTED ACCRETIVE EFFECT OF THE OFFER TO MYLAN’S ANNUAL ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT THE MARKET PRICE OF MYLAN ORDINARY SHARES. Mylan currently expects the Offer to be accretive to its adjusted annual earnings per share immediately upon the completion of the Offer. This is based on certain assumptions and may change materially. Mylan could also encounter additional costs or other factors such as the failure to realize some or all of the benefits anticipated in the Offer or the difficulty of managing a larger company. Any of these factors could cause dilution to the earnings per share of the combined business, decrease or delay any potential accretive effect of the Offer, and/or have a material adverse effect on Mylan’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or share price. MYLAN WILL INCUR SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTION-RELATED COSTS IN CONNECTION WITH THE OFFER. Mylan will incur significant transaction costs relating to the Offer, including legal, accounting, financial advisory, regulatory, and other expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on Mylan’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or share price. Many of these expenses are payable by Mylan whether or not the Offer is completed. Most of these expenses will be comprised of transaction costs related to the Offer and the 2016 Bridge Credit Agreement. Mylan will also incur transaction fees and costs related to formulating integration plans. These fees and costs may be higher or lower than estimated. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the two companies’ businesses. Although Mylan expects that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow Mylan to offset incremental transaction-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. Transaction-related costs could have a material adverse effect on Mylan’s business, financial condition, results of operation, cash flows and/or share price.DISRUPTION IN THE FINANCIAL MARKETS COULD AFFECT MYLAN’S ABILITY TO REFINANCE THE BORROWINGS UNDER THE 2016 BRIDGE CREDIT AGREEMENT ON FAVORABLE TERMS, OR AT ALL. If and to the extent drawn, the borrowings under the 2016 Bridge Credit Agreement must be repaid within 364 days of the funding date. Mylan anticipates refinancing, or obtaining alternative financing to repay, the borrowings under the 2016 Bridge Credit Agreement. Disruptions in the commercial credit markets or uncertainty in the United States, European Union or elsewhere could result in a tightening of financial markets. As a result of financial market turmoil or other economic, financial or commercial factors, Mylan may not be able to obtain alternate financing in order to repay or refinance on favorable terms (or at all) the borrowings under the 2016 Bridge Credit Agreement. The failure to so repay or refinance such indebtedness when due could have a material adverse effect on Mylan’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or share price. If Mylan is unable to successfully obtain alternative financing or refinance the borrowings under the 2016 Bridge Credit Agreement on favorable terms and conditions (including, but not limited to, pricing and other fee payments), this could result in additional costs to Mylan. If Mylan is unable to obtain alternate financing or refinance at all, the outstanding amounts under the 2016 Bridge Credit Agreement must be repaid within 364 days after the funding date. MYLAN WILL INCUR A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF INDEBTEDNESS TO ACQUIRE THE MEDA SHARES PURSUANT TO THE OFFER AND A COMPULSORY ACQUISITION. In connection with the Offer, Mylan obtained the 2016 Bridge Credit Agreement, which provides for loans of up to $6 billion to fund the cash portion of the consideration for the Offer and a compulsory acquisition, if applicable, and pay related transaction expenses. Mylan cannot guarantee that it will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to make all of the principal and interest payments under this indebtedness when such payments are due or that it will be able to refinance such indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. The failure to so repay or refinance such indebtedness when due could have a material adverse effect on Mylan’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or share price. MYLAN WILL HAVE SIGNIFICANT ADDITIONAL INDEBTEDNESS WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT MYLAN’S FINANCIAL CONDITION, PREVENT MYLAN FROM FULFILLING ITS OBLIGATIONS WITH RESPECT TO SUCH INDEBTEDNESS AND IMPOSE OTHER FINANCIAL AND OPERATING RESTRICTIONS ON MYLAN. ANY REFINANCING OF THIS DEBT COULD BEAR SIGNIFICANTLY HIGHER INTEREST RATES. 61Table of ContentsMylan’s increased indebtedness following the completion of the Offer and, if applicable, a compulsory acquisition could have adverse consequences, including but not limited to: •increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; •limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, challenges and opportunities, and changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; •limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements and other financing needs; •increasing our vulnerability to increases in interest rates in general because a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates; and •placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt. In addition, although the combined company is expected to maintain an investment grade credit rating, Mylan’s increased indebtedness following the completion of the Offer and, if applicable, a compulsory acquisition could result in a downgrade in the credit rating of Mylan or any indebtedness of Mylan or its subsidiaries. A downgrade in the credit rating of Mylan or any indebtedness of Mylan or its subsidiaries could increase the cost of further borrowings or refinancings of such indebtedness, limit access to sources of financing in the future or lead to other adverse consequences. The terms of Mylan’s indebtedness today impose, and any additional indebtedness we incur in the future, may impose, significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay certain dividends, prepay other indebtedness, sell assets, incur certain liens, enter into agreements with our affiliates and restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, merge or consolidate. In addition, certain of our credit facilities and the Receivables Facility, as well as certain agreements governing Meda’s indebtedness, require the respective company to maintain specified financial ratios. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios could result in a default under the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare our indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or share price. LOSS OF KEY PERSONNEL COULD LEAD TO LOSS OF CUSTOMERS, BUSINESS DISRUPTION, AND A DECLINE IN REVENUES, ADVERSELY AFFECT THE PROGRESS OF PIPELINE PRODUCTS, OR OTHERWISE ADVERSELY AFFECT THE OPERATIONS OF MYLAN. Mylan’s success after the completion of the Offer will depend in part upon its ability to retain key employees of Mylan and Meda. Prior to and following the completion of the Offer, employees of Mylan and Meda might experience uncertainty about their future roles with Mylan following the completion of the Offer, which might adversely affect Mylan’s ability to retain key managers and other employees of both companies. Competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical industry is very intense. Mylan may lose key personnel or may be unable to attract, retain, and motivate qualified individuals or the associated costs to Mylan may increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or share price of Mylan. THE VALUE OF THE SHARE PORTION OF THE OFFER CONSIDERATION IS DEPENDENT ON THE MARKET PRICE OF MYLAN ORDINARY SHARES. BECAUSE THE MARKET PRICE OF MYLAN ORDINARY SHARES AND THE EXCHANGE RATE BETWEEN USD AND SEK MAY FLUCTUATE, THE MARKET VALUE OF THE MYLAN ORDINARY SHARES THAT WILL BE ISSUED IN CONNECTION WITH THE OFFER MAY FLUCTUATE. Unless Mylan adjusts the Offer consideration in the event the share cap associated with the Offer is exceeded, each Meda shareholder who tenders into the Offer will receive, in respect of 80% of the number of Meda shares tendered by such shareholder, 165kr in cash per Meda share; and in respect of the remaining 20% of the number of Meda shares tendered by such shareholder, 62Table of Contents(i) if the volume-weighted average sale price per Mylan ordinary share on the NASDAQ Global Select Stock Market for the 20 consecutive trading days ending on and including the second trading day prior to the Offer being declared unconditional (the “Offeror Average Closing Price”) is greater than $50.74, a number of Mylan ordinary shares per Meda share equal to 165kr divided by the Offeror Average Closing Price as converted from USD to SEK at a SEK/USD exchange rate of 8.4158 (the “Announcement Exchange Rate”); (ii) if the Offeror Average Closing Price is greater than $30.78 and less than or equal to $50.74, 0.386 Mylan ordinary shares per Meda share; or (iii) if the Offeror Average Closing Price is less than or equal to $30.78, a number of Mylan ordinary shares per Meda share equal to 100kr divided by the Offeror Average Closing Price as converted from USD to SEK at the Announcement Exchange Rate. Because there is a fixed exchange ratio of 0.386 Mylan ordinary shares per Meda share when the Offeror Average Closing Price is greater than $30.78 and less than or equal to $50.74, Meda shareholders will bear the risk of declines in the market price of Mylan ordinary shares that cause the Offeror Average Closing Price to fluctuate within that range. The Offeror Average Closing Price could vary significantly from the market value of Mylan ordinary shares as of the date of this report or as of the dates on which Meda shareholders tender their shares, which could result in the value of the share portion of the Offer consideration being lower than it would have been as of such dates. In addition, the value of the share portion of the Offer consideration will never exceed 33kr in Mylan ordinary shares per Meda share (based on the Offeror Average Closing Price converted from USD to SEK at the Announcement Exchange Rate). Until Mylan declares the Offer unconditional, which will not occur until such time as the conditions to the Offer, including the condition that holders of more than 90% of the outstanding Meda shares tender their shares into the Offer, have either been satisfied or waived, the Offeror Average Closing Price cannot be calculated. As a result, Meda shareholders may be uncertain of the value of the share portion of the Offer consideration when they make the decision to tender their shares. Similarly, Mylan will not announce whether it is electing to adjust the Offer consideration in the event the share cap associated with the Offer is exceeded until it declares the Offer unconditional, so Meda shareholders may be uncertain of the allocation of the Offer consideration between cash and Mylan ordinary shares when they make the decision to tender their shares. The terms of the Offer do not provide for an adjustment mechanism in the case of any increases or decreases in the price of Mylan ordinary shares or Meda shares after the Offeror Average Closing Price is publicly announced, including with respect to Meda shares that are tendered during any subsequent acceptance period. While settlement for the initial acceptance period is expected to take place within five business days after the date that the Offer is declared unconditional, the market value of the Mylan ordinary shares that tendering Meda shareholders will receive in the Offer could still vary significantly from the Offeror Average Closing Price. The number of Mylan ordinary shares that will be issued as the share portion of the Offer consideration is based upon the Announcement Exchange Rate. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between USD and SEK may further affect the value in SEK of the Mylan ordinary shares that are issued in connection with the Offer. There will be no adjustment to the Offer consideration based on fluctuations in currency rates from the Announcement Exchange Rate. Accordingly, if the value of SEK falls relative to USD, the Offer consideration will consist of a lower value in SEK terms to Meda shareholders, which could cause the total Offer consideration to fall below 152kr at prevailing SEK/USD exchange rates. THE OFFER MAY NOT BE COMPLETED ON THE TERMS OR TIMELINE CURRENTLY CONTEMPLATED, OR AT ALL. Mylan’s obligation to complete the Offer is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of customary closing conditions, including (i) holders of more than 90% of the outstanding Meda shares tendering their shares into the Offer and (ii) receipt of all necessary regulatory, governmental or similar clearances, approvals and decisions, including from competition authorities. Since the fulfillment of these conditions is beyond Mylan’s control, there are no guarantees as to when the Offer will be completed, or that it will be completed at all. Uncertainty in the financial markets regarding if or when the Offer will be completed may negatively affect the price of Mylan ordinary shares and/or Meda shares. In addition, to grant such clearances, approvals, and decisions, competition authorities may impose requirements, limitations, or costs on the conduct of Mylan’s 63Table of Contentsbusinesses or require divestitures after completion of the Offer that could delay the completion of the Offer or may reduce the anticipated benefits of the Offer. If the proposed acquisition of Meda is not completed for any reason, Mylan and/or Meda would be subject to a number of risks, including, among others: •incurring substantial expenses and costs, including legal, accounting, financing, and advisory fees, that Mylan and/or Meda would be unable to recover; and •negative reactions from the financial markets or from Mylan’s and/or Meda’s respective customers, vendors, and employees. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on Mylan’s or Meda’s respective business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or share price. THE MARKET FOR MYLAN ORDINARY SHARES MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THE ISSUANCE OF MYLAN ORDINARY SHARES PURSUANT TO THE OFFER. In connection with the completion of the Offer, Mylan expects to issue approximately 28.2 million Mylan ordinary shares in connection with the Offer. The issuance of these new Mylan ordinary shares could have the effect of depressing the market price for Mylan ordinary shares. Other than the Mylan ordinary shares held by Stena Sessen Rederi AB (“Stena”) and Fidim S.r.l. (“Fidim”) subject to certain selling restrictions pursuant to the shareholder agreements entered into between Mylan and each of Stena and Fidim, the new Mylan ordinary shares to be issued in connection with the Offer will be freely tradable upon completion of the Offer. The issuance of Mylan ordinary shares to Meda shareholders who may not have the ability or wish to hold such shares, may lead to sales of such shares or the perception that such sales may occur, either of which may adversely affect the market for, and the market price of, Mylan ordinary shares. THE BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS OF MYLAN AND MEDA, INCLUDING CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS, MAY BE SUBJECT TO DISRUPTION DUE TO UNCERTAINTY ASSOCIATED WITH THE OFFER. Parties with which Mylan and Meda currently do business or may do business in the future, including customers and suppliers, may experience uncertainty associated with the Offer, including with respect to current or future business relationships with Mylan, Meda or the combined company. As a result, the business relationships of Mylan and Meda may be subject to disruptions if customers, suppliers, or others attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than Mylan or Meda. For example, certain customers and collaborators may have contractual consent rights or termination rights that may be triggered by a change of control or assignment of the rights and obligations of contracts that will be transferred in the Offer. These disruptions could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or share price of Mylan or the combined company or a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or cash flows of Meda. The effect of such disruptions could be exacerbated by a delay in the completion of the Offer. IF COUNTERPARTIES TO CERTAIN AGREEMENTS WITH MEDA, INCLUDING CERTAIN DEBT AGREEMENTS, DO NOT CONSENT, CHANGE OF CONTROL RIGHTS UNDER THOSE AGREEMENTS MAY BE TRIGGERED AS A RESULT OF THE OFFER, WHICH COULD CAUSE THE COMBINED COMPANY TO LOSE THE BENEFIT OF SUCH AGREEMENTS AND INCUR MATERIAL LIABILITIES OR REPLACEMENT COSTS. Meda is party to agreements that contain change-of-control, or certain other provisions that will be triggered as a result of the Offer and/or the completion of the Offer. If the counterparties to these agreements do not consent to the proposed acquisition of Meda by Mylan, the counterparties may have the ability to exercise certain rights (including termination rights), resulting in Meda incurring liabilities as a consequence of breaching such agreements, or causing the combined company to lose the benefit of such agreements or incur costs in seeking replacement agreements. Meda has certain debt obligations that contain change-of-control, or certain other provisions, that will be triggered as a result of the Offer and/or the completion of the Offer. If these provisions are triggered, the debt obligations may have to be repurchased, refinanced or otherwise settled. There can be no assurance that sufficient funds will be available to repurchase any 64Table of Contentsoutstanding debt obligations or that Mylan will be able to refinance or otherwise settle such debt obligations on favorable terms, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on Mylan’s business, financial condition, results of operation, cash flows and/or share price.THE OFFER, IF SUCCESSFUL, WILL TRIGGER PROVISIONS CONTAINED IN CERTAIN OF MEDA’S EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS OR AGREEMENTS THAT WILL REQUIRE MYLAN TO MAKE CHANGE IN CONTROL PAYMENTS. Certain of Meda’s employee benefit plans and agreements contain provisions providing for compensation to be paid to, or received by, certain Meda employees in connection with a change in control. If successful, the Offer would constitute a change in control of Meda, thereby giving rise to change in control payments, which could have a material adverse effect on Mylan’s business, financial condition, results of operation, cash flows and/or share price.ITEM 6. EXHIBITS