ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  The following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company’s management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. If any of the following risks occurs, Moody’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.  Changes in the Volume of Debt Securities Issued in Domestic and/or Global Capital Markets and Changes in Interest Rates and Other Volatility in the Financial Markets  Approximately 79% of Moody’s revenue in 2007 was derived from ratings. Revenues from ratings, in turn, are dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. Accordingly, any conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers’ willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuances for which Moody’s provides ratings services, and thereby, have an adverse effect on the fees derived from the issuance of ratings.  Factors that could reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers’ willingness or ability to issue such securities include unfavorable financial or economic conditions. In addition, increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant regulatory, political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively affect the general level of debt issuance and/or the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers. Beginning in July 2007, there has been a significant disruption in world financial markets, particularly in the credit markets. A sustained period of market decline or weakness, especially if it relates to credit sensitive securities, for which there is typically a high level of demand for ratings, could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business and financial results. The Company has recently noted a substantial reduction in the volume of debt securities issued and related revenues as a result of the uncertainties presently being experienced in the market for collateralized debt and other structured finance obligations. Revenue earned from ratings in 2007 was approximately 9% higher as compared to 2006, however, ratings revenue in the second half of 2007 compared to the second half of 2006 decreased approximately 11% due to the reduced number of credit-sensitive securities issued in the latter half of 2007 as a result of the credit turmoil beginning early in the third quarter of 2007. There can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that results will not continue to be adversely affected.  To the Extent that Any Concerns Affecting Credibility are Perceived in the Marketplace Moody’s Market Share and/or Revenue Could be Affected  Moody’s reputation is one key factor on the basis of which it competes. Moody’s is constantly taking steps to help maintain the absolute trustworthiness of its reputation, as well as its credibility in the marketplace. Accordingly, to the extent that rating agency business as a whole or Moody’s, relative to its competitors, suffers a loss in credibility, Moody’s business could be adversely affected. Factors that could affect one's credibility include, potentially, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities by a particular rating agency, as well as the ability to recognize potential changes in ratings on a timely basis.  Increased Pricing Pressure from Competitors and/or Customers  In the credit rating, research and credit risk management markets, competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and service. While Moody’s seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and service, if its pricing and services are not sufficiently competitive with its current and future competitors, Moody’s may lose market share.  Introduction of Competing Products or Technologies by Other Companies  The markets for credit ratings, research and credit risk management services are highly competitive. The ability to provide innovative products and technologies that anticipate customers’ changing requirements and to utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. Competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by Moody’s. Moody’s growth prospects could also be adversely affected by limitations of its information technologies that fail to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved by competitors.    10    Regulation as a Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization and Potential for New U.S., State and Local Legislation and Regulations  When governments adopt regulations that require debt securities to be rated, establish criteria for credit ratings or authorize only certain entities to provide credit ratings, the competitive balance among rating agencies and the level of demand for ratings may be positively or negatively affected. Government-mandated ratings criteria may also have the effect of displacing objective assessments of creditworthiness. In these circumstances, debt issuers may be less likely to base their choice of rating agencies on criteria such as independence and credibility, and more likely to base their choice on their assumption as to which credit rating agency might provide a higher rating, which may negatively affect the Company.  In the United States and other countries, the laws and regulations applicable to credit ratings and rating agencies continue to evolve and are presently subject to review by a number of legislative or regulatory bodies, including the SEC in the United States and state and local oversight. It is possible that such reviews could lead to greater oversight or regulation concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. Such additional regulations could, potentially, increase the costs associated with the operation of a credit rating agency, alter the rating agencies’ communications with the issuers as part of the rating assignment process, increase the legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings, change the regulatory framework to which credit rating agencies are subject and/or affect the competitive environment in which credit rating agencies operate.  Currently, Moody’s is designated as an NRSRO pursuant to SEC regulation enacted in response to the adoption of the Reform Act. One of the central promises of the Reform Act was to encourage competition among rating agencies. Given its recent adoption, Moody’s is unable to assess the future impact of any regulatory changes that may result from the SEC’s regulations or the impact on Moody’s competitive position or its current practices, although Moody’s would expect the Reform Act to increase costs of all entities engaged in the rating agency business. Similarly, at present, Moody’s is unable to predict the regulatory changes that may result from ongoing reviews by any of the various regulatory bodies or the effect that any such changes may have on its business. A description of several of the more recent regulatory initiatives in the United States and other countries is described above under the section entitled “Regulation” in Item 1. “Business”, of this Form 10-K.  Potential for Increased Competition and Regulation in Foreign Jurisdictions  Moody’s maintains offices outside the U.S. and derives a significant and increasing portion of its revenue from sources outside the U.S. Operations in different countries expose Moody’s to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars and currency fluctuations, export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers, political and economic instability as well as nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions, longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables, and potentially adverse tax consequences.  Moody’s faces competition from, among others, S&P, Fitch, DBRS, local rating agencies in a number of international jurisdictions and specialized companies that provide ratings for particular types of financial products or issuers (such as A.M. Best Company, Inc., with respect to the insurance industry). Since Moody’s believes that some of its most significant challenges and opportunities will arise outside the U.S., it will have to compete with rating agencies that may have a stronger local presence or a longer operating history in those markets. These local providers or comparable competitors that may emerge in the future may receive support from local governments or other institutions that Moody’s does not receive, putting Moody’s at a competitive disadvantage.  Because Moody’s operates globally and plans to expand its international scope, it must also react to regulatory changes abroad. CESR has monitored rating agencies’ compliance with the IOSCO Code. Although the CESR recently concluded in a report that the four internationally active rating agencies that operate in the European Union, including Moody’s, are largely compliant with the IOSCO Code, it did identify a few areas where it believed the rating agencies could improve their processes and disclosures and where the IOSCO Code could be improved. CESR indicated that it will look into these areas in particular, as well as the impact of the Reform Act and the SEC’s implementing rules on the rating business in the European Union. Moody’s is unable to assess the potential impact of any regulatory changes that may result from the CESR’s review, including whether any additional regulation would restrict or otherwise inhibit Moody’s expansion into foreign markets. See the discussion under the section entitled “Regulation” in Item 1. “Business”, of this Form 10-K, for additional information regarding the IOSCO Code and the CESR.    11    Exposure to Litigation Related to Moody’s Rating Opinions  Currently, Moody’s has received subpoenas and inquiries from states attorneys general and governmental authorities, as part of ongoing investigations, and is cooperating with those inquiries. The outcome of such investigations is presently unknown. In addition, Moody’s faces litigation from time to time from parties claiming damages relating to ratings actions, as well as other related actions. As Moody’s international business expands, these types of claims may increase or become more costly because foreign jurisdictions may not have legal protections or liability standards comparable to those in the U.S. (such as protections for the expression of credit opinions as is provided by the First Amendment and criminal rather than civil penalties). These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude often remains unknown for substantial periods of time.  Possible Loss of Key Employees to Investment or Commercial Banks or Elsewhere and Related Compensation Cost Pressures  Moody’s success depends in part upon recruiting and retaining highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. Competition for qualified staff in the financial services industry is intense, and Moody’s ability to attract staff could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing analytical industries. Investment banks and other competitors for analyst talent may be able to offer higher compensation than Moody’s or subject employees to less individual scrutiny. Moody’s also may not be able to identify and hire employees in some markets outside the U.S. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. Moody’s may lose key employees due to other factors, such as catastrophes, that could lead to disruption of business operations. Moody’s ability to compete effectively will continue to depend, among other things, on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees.  Our Operations and Infrastructure may Malfunction or Fail  Our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications or other services used by us or third parties with or through whom we conduct business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism or war or otherwise. We do not have fully redundant systems for most of our smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and our disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. If a disruption occurs in one of these locations and our personnel in those locations are unable to communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients and customers from these locations may suffer.  Our operations also rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this could jeopardize our or our clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients’, our counterparties' or third parties' operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us.      ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS