ITEM 1A. Risk Factors  Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006 included a detailed discussion of our risk factors. The information presented below updates and should be read in conjunction with the risk factors and information disclosed in that Form 10-K:  Legal and regulatory changes reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our business and results of operations.  Both our own profit margins and the profit margins of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. Many of our contracts with healthcare providers are multi-year contracts from which we derive profit based upon reimbursement rates and methodology. Many of these contracts cannot be terminated or amended in the event of such legal and regulatory changes. Accordingly, such changes may have the effect of reducing, or even eliminating, our profitability on such contracts until the end of the applicable contract periods.  ABSG’s business may be adversely affected in the future by changes in Medicare reimbursement rates for certain pharmaceuticals, including oncology drugs administered by physicians. Since ABSG provides a number of services to or through physicians, this could result in slower growth or lower revenues for ABSG.  The Company’s operating revenue growth rate has been negatively impacted by a reduction in sales of certain anemia drugs, primarily those used in oncology, and may, in the future, be adversely affected by any further reductions in sales or restrictions on the use of anemia drugs or a decrease in Medicare reimbursement for these drugs. Several developments contributed to the decline in sales of anemia drugs, including the decision in March 2007 by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) to require an expanded warning label on these drugs, CMS’s review of reimbursement policies for these drugs, and restrictions on recommended dosage or use. In July 2007, CMS issued new, more restrictive policies regarding Medicare coverage of anemia drugs used in the treatment of oncology patients and for kidney failure and dialysis. The FDA has scheduled a meeting in September 2007 to discuss updated information about the safety of these anemia drugs for patients with chronic renal failure, and CMS has indicated that it may impose additional restrictions in the future. Any changes in the recommended dosage or use of anemia drugs or reductions in reimbursement for such drugs could result in slower growth or lower revenues for the Company.  First DataBank, Inc. (“First DataBank”) publishes drug databases that contain drug information and pricing data. The pricing data includes average wholesale price, or AWP, which is a pricing benchmark widely used to calculate a portion of the Medicaid and Medicare Part D reimbursements payable to pharmacy providers. AWP is also used to establish the pricing of pharmaceuticals to certain to our pharmaceutical distribution customers in Puerto Rico. In October 2006, First DataBank agreed to a proposed settlement in legal proceeding that would require First DataBank to stop publishing AWP two years after the settlement becomes effective, unless a competitor of First DataBank is publishing AWP at that future time. The settlement would also require First DataBank to change the way it calculates AWP during the two-year interim period. The proposed settlement is subject to several contingencies and has not yet received final approval by the court. We continue to evaluate the potential impact that it could have on the business of our customers and our business. There can be no assurance that the settlement, if approved, would not have an adverse impact on the business of our customers and/or our business.    46    Table of Contents The federal government may adopt measures in the future that would further reduce Medicare and/or Medicaid spending or impose additional requirements on health care entities. At this time, we can provide no assurances that such changes, if adopted, would not have an adverse effect on our business.       ITEM 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds