ITEM 1A. Risk Factors  The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 included a detailed discussion of our risk factors under Part I, “Item 1A—Risk Factors.” The information presented below sets forth material changes from the risk factors described in the 2007 Form 10-K and should be read in conjunction with the risk factors and information described in the 2007 Form 10-K and the Company’s filings with the SEC since the date of the 2007 Form 10-K.  Legal and regulatory changes reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our business and results of operations.  Both our own profit margins and the profit margins of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. Many of our contracts with healthcare providers are multi-year contracts from which we derive profit based upon reimbursement rates and methodology. Many of these contracts cannot be terminated or amended in the event of such legal and regulatory changes. Accordingly, such changes may have the effect of reducing, or even eliminating, our profitability on such contracts until the end of the applicable contract periods.  ABSG’s business may be adversely affected in the future by changes in Medicare reimbursement rates for certain pharmaceuticals, including oncology drugs administered by physicians. Since ABSG provides a number of services to or through physicians, this could result in slower growth or lower revenues for ABSG.  The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”) was intended to reduce net Medicare and Medicaid spending by approximately $11 billion over five years. Effective January 1, 2007, the DRA changed the federal upper payment limit for Medicaid reimbursement from 150% of the lowest published price for generic pharmaceuticals (which is usually the average wholesale price) to 250% of the lowest manufacturer price or AMP. On July 17, 2007, CMS published a final rule implementing these provisions and clarifying, among other things, the AMP calculation methodology and the DRA provision requiring manufacturers to publicly report AMP for branded and generic pharmaceuticals. In December 2007, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia issued a preliminary injunction that enjoins CMS from implementing certain provisions of the AMP rule to the extent that it affects Medicaid reimbursement rates for retail pharmacies under the Medicaid program. The order also enjoins CMS from disclosing AMP data to states and other entities. As a result of the order, CMS has announced that the schedule for states to implement the new federal upper limits will be delayed until further notice. On July 15, 2008, Congress enacted into law over the President’s veto the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008. The law delays the adoption of CMS’s July 17, 2007 federal upper limit payment rule for Medicaid based on AMP for generic drugs and prevents CMS from publishing AMP data until October 1, 2009. We expect the use of an AMP benchmark to result in a reduction in the Medicaid reimbursement rates to our customers for certain generic pharmaceuticals, which may indirectly impact the prices that we can charge our customers for generic pharmaceuticals and cause corresponding declines in our profitability. There can be no assurance that the changes under the DRA will not have an adverse impact on our business. Unless we are able to develop plans to mitigate the potential impact of these legislative and regulatory changes, these changes in reimbursement formula and related reporting requirements and other provisions of the DRA could adversely affect our results of operations.    42    Table of Contents In December 2007, President Bush signed the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 into law. Among other things, the law requires CMS to adjust Medicare Part B drug average sales price (“ASP”) calculations to use volume-weighted ASPs based on actual sales volume, effective April 1, 2008. This change could reduce Medicare reimbursement rates for some Part B drugs, which may indirectly impact the prices we can charge our customers for pharmaceuticals and result in reductions in our profitability.  President Bush’s fiscal year 2009 budget proposal, released February 4, 2008, contains a series of proposals impacting Medicare and Medicaid, including a proposal to further reduce the Medicaid federal upper limit reimbursement for multiple source drugs to 150 percent of the AMP and replace the “best price” component of the Medicaid drug rebate formula with a budget-neutral flat rebate. Many of the proposed policy changes would require Congressional approval to implement. There can be no assurances that future revisions to Medicare or Medicaid payments, if enacted, will not have an adverse impact on our business.  Our operating revenue growth rate has been negatively impacted by a reduction in sales of certain anemia drugs, primarily those used in oncology, and may, in the future, be adversely affected by any further reductions in sales or restrictions on the use of anemia drugs or a decrease in Medicare reimbursement for these drugs. Several developments contributed to the decline in sales of anemia drugs, including the decision in March 2007 by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) to require an expanded warning label on these drugs, CMS’s review of reimbursement policies for these drugs, and restrictions on recommended dosage or use. In July 2007, CMS issued new, more restrictive policies regarding Medicare coverage of anemia drugs used in the treatment of oncology patients and for kidney failure and dialysis. The FDA held a meeting in September 2007 to discuss updated information about the safety of these anemia drugs for patients with chronic renal failure. On November 8, 2007, the FDA announced revised boxed warnings and other safety-related product labeling changes for these drugs addressing the risks posed to patients with cancer or chronic kidney failure. Moreover, on January 3, 2008, the FDA announced that it is reviewing new data from two studies concerning the possible risks associated with erythropoiesis stimulating agents and may take additional action with regard to these drugs. In March 2008, manufacturers of certain anemia products announced further labeling revisions to reflect additional safety information. Moreover, the FDA announced on July 30, 2008 that it is ordering additional safety labeling changes related to use of the drugs in the treatment of certain cancers. CMS has indicated that it may impose additional restrictions on Medicare coverage in the future. Also, on July 30, 2008, CMS announced it is considering a review of national Medicare coverage policy for these drugs for patients who have cancer or pre-dialysis chronic kidney disease. Any further changes in the recommended dosage or use of anemia drugs or reductions in reimbursement for such drugs could result in slower growth or lower revenues.  First DataBank, Inc. (“First DataBank”) publishes drug databases that contain drug information and pricing data. The pricing data includes average wholesale price, or AWP, which is a pricing benchmark widely used to calculate a portion of the Medicaid and Medicare Part D reimbursements payable to pharmacy providers. AWP is also used to establish the pricing of pharmaceuticals to certain of our pharmaceutical distribution customers in Puerto Rico. In October 2006, First DataBank agreed to a proposed settlement in New England Carpenters Health Benefits Fund et al. v. First DataBank, Inc. and McKesson Corporation CA N. 1:05-CV-11148-PBS (U.S. Dist. Ct. Mass) that would require First DataBank to stop publishing AWP two years after the settlement becomes effective, unless a competitor of First DataBank is publishing AWP at that future time. The settlement would also require First DataBank to change the way it calculates AWP during the two-year interim period. In a related case, District Council 37 Health Security Plan v. Medi-Span, CA No. 1:07-CV-10988-PBS (U.W. Dist. Ct. Mass), in which Medi-Span is accused of misrepresenting pharmaceutical prices in reliance on First DataBank’s published pricing data, the parties agreed to a similar proposed settlement. The proposed settlement, however, was rejected by the district court hearing the case at a January 22, 2008 hearing. The court ordered the parties to report back with respect to issues raised at the hearing and whether the settlement may be revised with respect to such issues. The parties filed amendments to the proposed settlement on March 19, 2008 and, at a status conference hearing that day, the court asked the parties to further revise the settlement. On May 29, 2008, the plaintiffs and First Databank filed an amended settlement that would, among other things, apply a reduced markup factor (20% versus 25%) to approximately 1,400 national drug codes. On June 3, 2008, the Court granted     43    Table of Contents  preliminary approval to the revised settlement and subsequently approved the process for class notification. The matter is still subject to opposition by others, a fairness hearing, which has been scheduled for December 17, 2008, and final approval. First Databank also announced that, independent of the settlement, it would reduce to 20% the markup on all drugs with a mark-up higher than 20% and stop publishing AWP within two years after the mark-up changes are implemented. We continue to evaluate the potential impact that a proposed settlement could have on the business of our customers and our business. If a revised settlement or other resolution of the case is approved, we will evaluate the potential impact of such settlement or other resolution on us at that time. There can be no assurance that a settlement or other resolution, if approved, would not have an adverse impact on the business of our customers and/or our business.  The federal government may adopt measures in the future that would further reduce Medicare and/or Medicaid spending or impose additional requirements on health care entities. At this time, we can provide no assurances that such changes, if adopted, would not have an adverse effect on our business.      ITEM 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds