ITEM 1A. Risk Factors  The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008 included a detailed discussion of our risk factors under Part I, “Item 1A — Risk Factors.” The information presented below sets forth material changes from the risk factors described in the 2008 Form 10-K and should be read in conjunction with the risk factors and information described in the 2008 Form 10-K and the Company’s filings with the SEC since the date of the 2008 Form 10-K.  Changes to the United States healthcare environment, including the impact of measures to finance reforms, may negatively impact our business and our profitability.  Our products and services are intended to function within the structure of the healthcare financing and reimbursement system currently existing in the United States. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. These changes include an increased reliance on managed care; cuts in certain Medicare funding affecting our healthcare provider customer base; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and customers; and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental funding for certain healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. We expect continued government and private payor pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. Changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers’ pricing or distribution policies could also significantly reduce our profitability.   36    Table of Contents  President Obama’s proposed fiscal year 2010 budget, which was released on February 26, 2009, contains a number of proposed Medicare and Medicaid policy changes as well as measures designed to finance comprehensive health care reform, such as health system savings and tax increases. One of the mechanisms proposed to increase taxes is the elimination of the last-in, first-out (LIFO) inventory method of accounting, which we currently use. Many of the proposed policy changes would require Congressional approval to implement. There can be no assurances that future revisions to Medicare or Medicaid policy changes or the impact of measures to finance reform, if enacted, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.     ITEM 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds