ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  Our business faces significant risks, including credit, market/liquidity, operational, legal/regulatory and strategic/reputation risks. The factors described below may not be the only risks we face and are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing or be applicable only to the category of risk under which they are disclosed. The risks described below are generally applicable to more than one of the following categories of risks. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could suffer.  In light of the current market environment, particularly within the financial sector, we have added certain risk factors under the section entitled “Risks Relating to Current Market Environment” below. Other than these new risk factors, there are no material changes from the risk factors set forth in our 2007 Form 10-K.  Risks Relating to Current Market Environment  Current market developments may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations.  Dramatic declines in the housing market during the prior year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors, concerned about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, have reduced or ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. Additionally, over the past several quarters, there has been a significant decline in mergers, acquisitions or initial public offerings of companies — events upon which the venture capital and private equity community relies to “exit” their investments. If this persists over the longer term, there may be an adverse impact on investment returns, valuations of companies and overall levels of venture capital and private equity investments. In sum, the resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and/or reduced business activity and “exit” events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented.  The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. Recently, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.    59    Table of Contents The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.  Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be increased when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the secured obligation. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations or earnings.  There can be no assurance that the recently enacted Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) will help stabilize the U.S. financial system.  On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), which evolved from the U.S. Treasury’s (“Treasury”) initial proposal in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Treasury and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including a Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”), which gives Treasury the authority to deploy into the U.S. financial system up to $700 billion. $250 billion of this authority is available to eligible financial institutions through the Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) as a capital infusion through the Treasury’s purchase of preferred stock and warrants of these financial institutions. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA, TARP or CPP will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock.  Additional requirements under our regulatory scheme could adversely affect us.  Recent government efforts to strengthen the U.S. financial system, including the implementation of EESA, TARP, CPP and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s (“FDIC”) Temporary Liquidity Guaranty Program (“TLGP”), would subject participants to additional regulatory requirements. Participants in the CPP must adopt Treasury’s standards for corporate governance and executive compensation, such as, among other things, restrictions on declaring or paying dividends, restrictions on share repurchases, limits on executive compensation tax deductions or prohibitions against golden parachute payments. Participants in the TLGP, which provides unlimited deposit insurance until December 31, 2009 on funds in noninterest-bearing deposit accounts, will be assessed additional fees. If we participated in any of these programs, we would be subject to additional requirements that may have a material and adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Other regulatory changes resulting from recent market events may have an adverse impact on us. Due to recent bank failures, the FDIC has announced an increase in deposit insurance premiums to aid in rebuilding its Deposit Insurance Fund. Depending on the frequency and severity of bank failures, future increases in premiums could have an adverse affect on our earnings. Additionally, increased legislative focus on the overall financial industry may result in the imposition of additional regulatory requirements, which may have a material and adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations.  Credit Risks  If our clients fail to perform under their loans, our business, profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected.  As a lender, we face the risk that our client borrowers will fail to pay their loans when due. If borrower defaults cause large aggregate losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and financial condition. We reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for loan losses, which results in a charge to our earnings. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of loan losses are dependent to a great extent on our subjective assessment based upon our experience and judgment. There can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and financial condition.  Because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile. We may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce net income or increase net losses in that period.  Our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. Many of our loans are made to companies in the early stages of development with negative cash flows and no established record of profitable operations. Repayment of many of our loans is dependent upon receipt by borrowers of additional equity financing from venture capitalists or others. Collateral for many of our loans often includes intellectual property, which is difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. Because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the companies in our technology and life sciences industry sectors, a borrower’s financial position can deteriorate rapidly. Additionally, we are increasing our lending to larger private equity firms and corporate technology clients, including some companies with greater levels of debt relative to their equity, and have increased the average size of our loans over time. These changes could affect the risk of borrower default and increase the impact on us of any single borrower default.     60    Table of Contents  For all of these reasons, our level of nonperforming loans, loan charge-offs and additional allowance for loan losses can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. Increases in our level of nonperforming loans may require us to increase our provision for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. Additionally, such increases in our level of nonperforming loans may also have an adverse effect on our credit ratings and market perceptions of us.  Market/Liquidity Risks   Our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. Any material reduction in our interest rate spread could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and financial condition.  A major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on amounts used to fund assets and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets. We fund assets using deposits and other borrowings. While we offer some interest-bearing deposit products, most of our deposit products are non-interest bearing. Our interest-earning assets include loans extended to our clients and securities held in our investment portfolio.  Changes in interest rates impact our interest rate spread. Increases in market interest rates will likely cause our interest rate spread to increase. Conversely, if interest rates decline, our interest rate spread will likely decline. Recent decreases in market interest rates have caused our interest rate spread to decline, which reduces our net income. Unexpected interest rate declines may also adversely affect our business forecasts and expectations. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies.  In addition to changes in the level of interest rates, changes in the composition of our funding sources could affect our interest rate spread. For example, since 2006 we have funded our loan growth primarily through short- and long-term borrowings. These funds carry meaningfully higher interest rate costs than our current deposit base. If we significantly increase the amount of our assets that we fund through borrowings rather than deposits, our interest rate spread will likely decline. Similarly, if we significantly increase the amount of our assets that we fund through interest-bearing deposits, or increase the rates we pay on those deposits, our interest rate spread likely would decline. Interest rates paid by us could be affected by competitive, legislative or other developments. For example, in 2007 we introduced two new interest-bearing deposit products, intended to enhance our deposit levels to support our loan growth, and in the future, we may introduce additional interest-bearing deposit products. In addition, Congress has for many years debated repealing a law that prohibits banks from paying interest on checking accounts. If this law were to be repealed, we would be subject to competitive pressure to pay interest on our clients’ checking accounts.  The interest rates we receive on our interest-earning assets could be affected by a variety of factors, including market interest rates, competition, a change over time in the mix of loans comprising our loan portfolio and the mix of loans and investment securities on our balance sheet. Any material reduction in our interest rate spread could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and financial condition.  Our business is dependent upon access to funds on attractive terms. Consequently, a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, profitability and financial condition.  We derive our net interest income through lending or investing capital on terms that provide returns in excess of our costs for obtaining that capital. As a result, our credit ratings are important to our business. A reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs or increase the interest rates we pay on deposits. Further, our credit ratings and the terms upon which we have access to capital may be influenced by circumstances beyond our control, such as overall trends in the general market environment, perceptions about our creditworthiness or market conditions in the industries in which we focus.  Equity warrant asset, private equity and venture capital funds and direct equity investment portfolio gains or losses depend upon the performance of the portfolio investments and the general condition of the public equity markets, which are uncertain and may vary materially by period.  We obtain rights to acquire stock in the form of equity warrant assets in certain clients for negotiated credit facilities and other services. We also make investments in private equity funds and direct investments in companies. The fair value of these warrants and investments are reflected in our financial statements and adjusted on a quarterly basis, as necessary. Fair value changes are generally recorded as unrealized gains or losses through consolidated net income. The timing and amount of changes in fair value, if any, of these financial instruments depend upon factors beyond our control, including the performance of the underlying companies, fluctuations in the market prices of the preferred or common stock of the underlying companies, general volatility and interest rate market factors, and legal and contractual restrictions. The timing and amount of actual net proceeds, if any, from the disposition of these financial instruments depend upon factors beyond our control, including investor demand for initial public offerings, levels of merger and acquisition activity, legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell, and the perceived and actual performance of portfolio companies. Because of the inherent variability of these financial instruments and the markets in which they are made, the fair market value of these financial instruments might increase or decrease materially, and the net proceeds realized on disposition might be less than the then-current recorded fair market value.     61    Table of Contents  We cannot predict future gains or losses, and any gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. Additionally, the value of our equity warrant asset portfolio depends on the number of warrants we obtain, and in future periods, we may not be able to continue to obtain such equity warrant assets to the same extent we historically have achieved.  Public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions involving our clients can cause loans to be paid off early, which could adversely affect our business, profitability and financial condition.  While an active market for public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering, are acquired by or merge with another entity or otherwise receive a significant equity investment. Any significant reduction in our outstanding loans could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and financial condition.  Operational Risks  If we fail to retain our key employees or recruit new employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected.  We rely on key personnel, including a substantial number of employees who have technical expertise in their subject matter area and a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. If we were to have less success in recruiting and retaining these employees than our competitors, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. We believe that our employees frequently have opportunities for alternative employment with other organizations, including competing financial institutions and our clients.  Changes to our employee compensation structure could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to attract, recruit and retain certain key employees.  In May 2006, in an effort to align our option grant rate to that of other financial institutions similar to us, we committed to restrict the total number of shares of our common stock issued under stock options, restricted stock awards, restricted stock unit awards, stock bonus awards and any other equity awards granted during a fiscal year as a percentage of the total number of shares outstanding on a prospective basis. We may in the future consider taking other actions to modify employee compensation structures, such as granting cash compensation or other forms of equity compensation. Our decision to reduce the number of option shares to be granted on a prospective basis, and any other future changes we may adopt in our employee compensation structures, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to attract, recruit and retain certain key employees.  The occurrence of breaches of security in our online banking services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  We offer various internet-based services to our clients, including online banking services. The secure transmission of confidential information and execution of transactions over the Internet is essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and to maintain our clients’ confidence in our online services. Increases in criminal activity levels, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect client transaction data, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to prevent security breaches and periodically test our security, failure to mitigate breaches of security could result in losses to us or our clients, result in a loss of business and/or clients, cause us to incur additional expenses, affect our ability to grow our online services business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. More generally, publicized security problems could inhibit the growth of the Internet as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Our ability to provide financial services over the Internet would be severely impeded if clients became unwilling to transmit confidential information online. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  Business disruptions and interruptions due to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control can adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, severe weather, public health issues, power failures, telecommunication loss, major accidents, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and other natural and man-made events. Our corporate headquarters and a portion of our critical business offices are located in California near major earthquake faults. Such events of disaster, whether natural or attributable to human beings, could cause severe destruction, disruption or interruption to our operations or property. Financial institutions, such as us, generally must resume operations promptly following any interruption. If we were to suffer a disruption or interruption and were not able to resume normal operations within a period consistent with industry standards, our business could suffer serious harm. In addition, depending on the nature and duration of the disruption or interruption, we might be vulnerable to fraud, additional expense or other losses, or to a loss of business and/or clients. We are in the process of implementing our business continuity program, which is a multi-year effort. We began implementing during 2005, but it has not yet been completed. There is no assurance that our business continuity program can adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions.    62    Table of Contents Additionally, natural disasters and external events could affect the business and operations of our clients, which could impair their ability to pay their loans or fees when due, impair the value of collateral securing their loans, cause our clients to reduce their deposits with us, or otherwise adversely affect their business dealings with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  We face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties.  We rely on third parties in a variety of ways, including to provide key components of our business infrastructure or to further our business objectives. These third parties may provide services to us and our clients or serve as partners in business activities. We rely on these third parties to fulfill their obligations to us, to accurately inform us of relevant information and to conduct their activities professionally and in a manner that reflects positively on us. Any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance with our expectations could harm our business and operations, financial performance, strategic growth or reputation.  We face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our processes to support our operations and future growth effectively.  In order to serve our target clients effectively, we have developed a comprehensive array of banking and other products and services. In order to support these products and services, we have developed and purchased or licensed information technology and other systems and processes. As our business continues to grow, we will continue to invest in these systems and processes. These investments may affect our future profitability. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively and timely improve our systems and processes to meet our business needs efficiently, whether by improving existing systems and processes or adding or transitioning to new systems and processes. Any interruption, failure or security breach in our information technology systems or processes, or any failure to effectively and timely improve these systems and processes to meet our business needs, could adversely affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations, future growth and reputation.  We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.  In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, under our accounts receivable financing arrangements, we rely on information, such as invoices, contracts and other supporting documentation, provided by our clients and their account debtors to determine the amount of credit to extend. Similarly, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may assume that when we receive a customer’s audited financial statements that they conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We also may rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we rely on financial statements or other information that do not comply with GAAP or that are materially misleading or inaccurate.  Our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. They may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain.  Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with GAAP and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative.  Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements.  From time to time, FASB or the SEC may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. In addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. These changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retroactively, in each case resulting in our restating prior period financial statements.  If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock.    63    Table of Contents If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our stock price, and could potentially subject us to litigation.  Legal/Regulatory Risks  We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business.  SVB Financial Group, including the Bank, is extensively regulated under federal and state laws governing financial institutions. Federal and state laws and regulations govern, limit or otherwise affect the activities in which we may engage and may affect our ability to expand our business over time. In addition, a change in the applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy could have a material effect on our business, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. These laws and regulations also require financial institutions, including SVB Financial and the Bank, to maintain certain minimum levels of capital, which may affect our ability to use our capital for other business purposes. In addition, increased regulatory requirements, whether due to the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability.  If we were to violate federal or state laws or regulations governing financial institutions, we could be subject to disciplinary action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and reputation.  Federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to financial institutions. Other regulatory bodies, including the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) and state securities regulators, regulate broker-dealers, including our subsidiary, SVB Securities. If SVB Financial Group were to violate, even if unintentionally or inadvertently, the laws governing financial institutions and broker-dealers, the regulatory authorities could take various actions against us, depending on the severity of the violation, such as revoking necessary licenses or authorizations, imposing censures, civil money penalties or fines, issuing cease and desist or other supervisory orders, and suspending or expelling from the securities business a firm, its officers or employees. Supervisory actions could result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums and limitations on the activities of SVB Financial Group. These remedies and supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and reputation.  SVB Financial relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its cash revenues.  SVB Financial is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its cash revenues from dividends from its subsidiaries, primarily the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay operating costs, borrowings, if any, and dividends, should SVB Financial elect to pay any. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to SVB Financial. Also, SVB Financial’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors.  Strategic/Reputation Risks  Adverse changes in domestic or global economic conditions, especially in our industry niches, could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth and profitability.  If conditions deteriorate in the domestic or global economy, especially in the technology, life science, private equity (including venture capital) and premium wine industry niches or overall financial capital markets, our business, growth and profitability may be materially adversely affected. A global, U.S. or significant regional economic slowdown or recession could harm us by adversely affecting our clients’ and prospective clients’ access to capital to fund their businesses, their ability to sustain and grow their businesses, the level of funds they have available to maintain deposits, their demand for loans, their ability to repay loans and otherwise.  Decreases in the amount of equity capital available to start-up and emerging-growth companies could adversely affect our business, growth and profitability.  Historically, our strategy has focused on providing banking products and services to emerging-growth companies receiving financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capitalists, “angels,” and corporate investors. We derive a meaningful share of our deposits from these emerging growth companies and provide them with loans as well as other banking products and services. In some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our venture capital or angel-backed client will receive a second or subsequent round of equity capital from investors. If the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of new clients and investor financial support to our existing borrowers could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects.    64    Table of Contents Among the factors that have affected and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to startup and emerging-growth companies are the receptivity of the capital markets, IPO’s or mergers and acquisitions of companies within our technology and life science industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments and general economic conditions in the technology, life science and private equity (including venture capital) industries. Reduced capital markets valuations could reduce the amount of capital available to startup and emerging-growth companies, including companies within our technology and life science industry sectors. Additionally, such reduced valuations may decrease the value of our investment portfolio, in which we hold direct equity investments and warrants in these companies, as well as investments in funds that invest in these companies, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  We face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, profitability, financial condition and future growth.  Other banks and specialty and diversified financial services companies and debt funds, many of which are larger than we are, offer lending, leasing, other financial products and advisory services to our client base. In addition, we compete with hedge funds and private equity funds, which currently have very significant amounts of capital available to invest and lend. In some cases, our competitors focus their marketing on our industry sectors and seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies, early stage growth companies or special industries such as wineries. In other cases, our competitors may offer a broader range of financial products to our clients. When new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share or ability to exploit new market opportunities. Our pricing and credit terms could deteriorate if we act to meet these competitive challenges, which could adversely affect our business, profitability, financial condition and future growth. Similarly, competitive pressures could adversely affect the business, profitability, financial condition and future growth of our non-banking services, including our access to capital and attractive investment opportunities for our funds business and our ability to secure attractive engagements in our investment banking business.  Our ability to maintain or increase our market share depends on our ability to meet the needs of existing and future clients.  Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and to meet the needs of existing and potential future clients. A failure to achieve market acceptance of any new products we introduce, a failure to introduce products that the market may demand, or the costs associated with developing, introducing and providing new products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects.  We face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings.  If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may engage in strategic activities, which could include acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, investments or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful.  In order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might obtain additional equity or debt financing. Such financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Our ability to execute strategic activities successfully will depend on a variety of factors. These factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating the operations, services, products, personnel and systems of an acquired company into our business, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to do business, retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting management’s expectations and otherwise realizing the undertaking’s anticipated benefits. Our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. In addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management’s attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. If we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. In addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations.  We face risks associated with international operations.  One component of our strategy is to expand internationally. To date, we have opened offices in China, India, Israel and the United Kingdom. We plan to expand our operations in those locations and may expand beyond these countries. Our efforts to expand our business internationally carry with it certain risks, including risks arising from the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations. In addition, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, legal, regulatory and tax requirements and restrictions, uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, differing technology standards or customer requirements, political and economic risks and financial risks, including currency and payment risks. These risks could adversely affect the success of our international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operation and financial condition. In addition, we face risks that our employees may fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing our international operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and foreign laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on us.    65    Table of Contents Our business reputation is important and any damage to it could have a material adverse effect on our business.   Our reputation is very important to sustain our business, as we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the private equity and venture capital communities and the industries that we serve. Any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with SEC and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, or our conduct of our business or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business.      ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS