Item 1A. Risk Factors   This document contains “forward-looking statements” that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and plans that are subject to uncertainty. These statements are made subject to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments. These forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and may be identified by their use of words like “plans,” “seeks,” “expects,” “will,” “should,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “believes,” “likely,” “targets” and other words with similar meanings. These statements may address, among other things, our strategy for growth, catastrophe exposure management, product development, regulatory approvals, market position, expenses, financial results, litigation and reserves. We believe that these statements are based on reasonable estimates, assumptions and plans. However, if the estimates, assumptions or plans underlying the forward-looking statements prove inaccurate or if other risks or uncertainties arise, actual results could differ materially from those communicated in these forward-looking statements. Risk factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to those discussed or identified in this document (including the risks described below), in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and those incorporated by reference in Part I, Item 1A of The Allstate Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2008.   A large scale pandemic, the continued threat of terrorism, and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the level of claim losses we incur and the value of our investment portfolio   A global pandemic and the continued threat of terrorism, both within the United States and abroad, and ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and losses from declines in the equity markets and from interest rate changes in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, and result in loss of life, property damage, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by a global pandemic or the continued threat of terrorism. We seek to mitigate the potential impact of terrorism on our commercial mortgage portfolio by limiting geographical concentrations in key metropolitan areas and by requiring terrorism insurance to the extent that it is commercially available. Additionally, in the event that a global pandemic or a terrorist act occurs, both Allstate Protection and Allstate Financial could be adversely affected, depending on the nature of the event.   Proposed regulatory reforms, and the more stringent application of existing regulations, may make it more expensive for us to conduct our business.   The federal government has released a set of proposed regulatory reforms with respect to financial services entities. As part of a larger effort to strengthen the regulation of the financial services market, the proposal outlines certain reforms applicable to the insurance industry, including the establishment of an Office of National Insurance within the Treasury Department and the modernization of insurance regulation in accordance with principles regarding risk, capital, consumer protection, national regulatory uniformity, improved and broadened regulatory scope, and coordination among international regulatory authorities. The proposal would also increase the regulation of large insurance conglomerates whose failure could pose a systemic risk to the financial system.    119       We are a diversified savings and loan holding company for Allstate Bank, a federal stock savings bank and a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). The principal supervisory authority for the diversified savings and loan holding company activities and the bank is the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”). The Company is subject to OTS regulation, examination, supervision and reporting requirements. In addition, the OTS has enforcement authority over the Company and its subsidiaries. Among other things, this permits the OTS to restrict or prohibit activities that are determined to be a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness and stability of the Allstate Bank.   Any additional legislation or regulatory requirements imposed upon us in connection with the federal government proposed regulatory reforms, and any more stringent enforcement of existing regulations by federal authorities, may make it more expensive for us to conduct our business.   Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds