ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  The following discussion describes certain risk factors that we believe could affect our business and prospects. These risk factors are in addition to those set forth elsewhere in this report.  Intense competition may erode our profit margins.  The distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare solutions is highly competitive. We compete with large wholesale distributors of pharmaceuticals such as Cardinal Health, Inc. and McKesson Corporation; regional and local distributors of pharmaceuticals; chain drugstores that warehouse their own pharmaceuticals; manufacturers who distribute their products directly to customers; specialty distributors; and other healthcare providers. The Long-Term Care and PMSI businesses in which PharMerica operates also are highly competitive.  Competitive pressures have contributed to a decline in our gross profit margins on operating revenue from 5.42% in fiscal 2001 to 3.94% in fiscal 2006. This trend may continue and our business could be adversely affected as a result.  Our operating revenue and results of operations may suffer upon the loss of a significant customer.  Our top ten customers represented approximately 32% of operating revenue for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. Our largest individual customer accounted for approximately 8% of our operating revenue for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. We also have contracts with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), each of which functions as a purchasing agent on behalf of its members, who are hospitals, pharmacies or other healthcare providers. Approximately 8% of our operating revenue for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 was derived from our two largest GPO relationships (Novation and Premier). We may lose a significant customer or GPO relationship if any existing contract with such customer or GPO expires without being extended, renewed, renegotiated or replaced or is terminated by the customer or GPO prior to expiration, to the extent such early termination is permitted by the contract. A number of our contracts with significant customers or GPOs are typically subject to expiration each year and we may lose any of these customers or GPO relationships if we are unable to extend, renew, renegotiate or replace the contracts. The loss of any significant customer or GPO relationship could adversely affect our operating revenue and results of operations.  Our operating revenue and results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of a significant customer.  Most of our customers buy pharmaceuticals and other products and services from us on credit. Credit is made available to customers based on our assessment and analysis of creditworthiness. Although we often try to obtain a security interest in assets and other arrangements intended to protect our credit exposure, we generally are either subordinated to the position of the primary lenders to our customers or substantially unsecured. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of any customer at a time when the customer has a substantial account payable balance due to us could have a material adverse affect on our operating revenue and results of operations. At September 30, 2006, the largest trade receivable due from a single customer represented approximately 12% of accounts receivable, net.    11    Table of Contents Our results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of a significant supplier.  Our relationships with pharmaceutical suppliers give rise to substantial amounts that are due to us from the suppliers, including amounts due to us for returned goods or defective goods and amounts due to us for services provided to the suppliers. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of any supplier at a time when the supplier has a substantial account payable balance due to us could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations.  Increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel may increase our costs and reduce our profitability.  The healthcare industry is highly regulated at the federal and state level. Consequently, we are subject to the risk of changes in various federal and state laws, which include operating and security standards of the DEA, the FDA, various state boards of pharmacy and comparable agencies. In recent years, some states have passed or have proposed laws and regulations, including laws and regulations obligating pharmaceutical distributors to provide prescription drug pedigrees, that are intended to protect the safety of the supply channel but that also may substantially increase the costs and burden of pharmaceutical distribution. For example, the Florida Prescription Drug Pedigree laws and regulations that became effective in July 2006 imposed obligations upon us to deliver prescription drug pedigrees to various categories of customers. In order to comply with the Florida requirements, we implemented an e-pedigree system at our distribution center in Florida that required significant capital outlays. Other states are considering laws and regulations that would require us to implement pedigree capabilities in those other states similar to the pedigree capabilities implemented for Florida. California is considering mandating the implementation of costly track and trace chain of custody technologies, such as radio frequency identification (RFID) technologies, within the next few years even though such technologies have yet to be commercialized. At the federal level, the FDA issued final regulations pursuant to the Pharmaceutical Drug Marketing Act that were scheduled to become effective in December 2006. The regulations impose pedigree and other chain of custody requirements that increase the costs and/or burden to us of selling to other pharmaceutical distributors and handling product returns. In early December 2006, the federal District Court for the Eastern District of New York issued a preliminary injunction temporarily enjoining the implementation of the regulations in response to a case initiated by secondary distributors. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this legal proceeding.  Legal and regulatory changes reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our business and results of operations.  Both our own profit margins and the profit margins of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. Many of our contracts with healthcare providers are multi-year contracts from which we derive profit based upon reimbursement rates and methodology. Many of these contracts cannot be terminated or amended in the event of such legal and regulatory changes. Accordingly, such changes may have the effect of reducing, or even eliminating, our profitability on such contracts until the end of the applicable contract periods.  ABSG’s business may be adversely affected in the future by changes in the Medicare reimbursement rates for certain pharmaceuticals, including oncology drugs administered by physicians. Since ABSG provides a number of services to or through physicians, this could result in slower growth or lower revenues for ABSG.  Long-Term Care receives rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers for undertaking certain activities that the manufacturers believe may increase the likelihood that their respective products will be dispensed. CMS continues to question pharmacies’ receipt of discounts, rebates, and other price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers with respect to prescriptions covered under the Medicare Part D benefit. In a finalized “Call Letter” for the 2007 calendar year, CMS indicated it will require Part D Plans to have policies and systems in place, as part of their drug utilization management programs, to protect beneficiaries and reduce costs when long-term care pharmacies are subject to incentives to move market share through access/performance rebates from drug manufacturers. Especially where such rebates exist, CMS instructs Part D Plans to require pharmacies to     12    Table of Contents  disclose to the Part D Plans any discounts, rebates and other direct or indirect remuneration designed to directly or indirectly influence or impact utilization of Part D drugs. CMS has issued guidelines regarding the information that CMS will require from Part D Plans concerning rebates received by long-term care pharmacies.  The DRA is intended to reduce net Medicare and Medicaid spending by approximately $11 billion over the next four to five years. DRA provisions could reduce payments to Long-Term Care customers. Among other things, the DRA will reduce certain bad debt payments to Medicare skilled nursing facilities and strengthen asset transfer restrictions for people seeking to qualify for Medicaid long-term care coverage. In addition, new rules that will go into effect on January 1, 2007 may decrease Medicaid pharmacy reimbursement for multiple-source drugs by changing the federal upper payment limit from 150 percent of the lowest published price for a drug (which is usually the wholesale acquisition cost) to 250 percent of the lowest average manufacturer price. There can be no assurance that the changes under the DRA will not have an adverse impact on our business. Various administrative agencies are in the process of defining the specific details of the legislation. We are continuing to work with our customers and the regulatory agencies in this process. We are currently developing plans to mitigate the potential impact of these legislative changes. If we fail to successfully develop and implement such plans, this change in reimbursement formula and related reporting requirements and other provisions of the DRA could adversely affect our results of operations.  Average wholesale price, or AWP, is a pricing benchmark published by First DataBank, Inc. that is widely used to calculate a portion of the Medicaid and Medicare Part D reimbursements payable to pharmacy providers for the drugs and biologicals they provide. AWP is also used to establish the pricing of pharmaceuticals to certain of our pharmaceutical distribution customers in Puerto Rico. First DataBank recently agreed to a proposed settlement of a legal proceeding that would require First DataBank to stop publishing AWP two years after the settlement becomes effective unless a competitor of First DataBank is publishing AWP at that future time. First DataBank would also be required to change the way it calculates AWP during the two-year interim period. The settlement agreement is not final, and we are evaluating the potential impact that it could have on the business of our customers and our business. There can be no assurance that the settlement, if approved, would not have an adverse impact on the business of our customers and/or our business.  The federal government may adopt measures in the future that would further reduce Medicare and/or Medicaid spending or impose additional requirements on health care entities. At this time, we can provide no assurances that such changes, if adopted, would not have an adverse effect on our business.  The changing United States healthcare environment may negatively impact our business and our profitability.  Our products and services are intended to function within the structure of the healthcare financing and reimbursement system currently existing in the United States. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. These changes include an increased reliance on managed care; cuts in Medicare funding affecting our healthcare provider customer base; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and customers; and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental support of healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. We expect continued government and private payor pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. Changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers’ pricing or distribution policies could also significantly reduce our profitability.  If we fail to comply with laws and regulations in respect of healthcare fraud and abuse, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations.  We are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The federal government continues to strengthen its position and scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud affecting Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers subject our business to laws and     13    Table of Contents  regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or for inducing the ordering or purchasing of items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other government-sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of designated health services under Medicare and Medicaid programs. Legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse give federal enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse. While we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws, many of the regulations applicable to us, including those relating to marketing incentives offered by pharmaceutical suppliers, are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.  Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we undertake acquisitions of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate.  We expect to continue to implement our growth strategy, in part, by acquiring companies. At any particular time, we may be in various stages of assessment, discussion and negotiation with regard to one or more potential acquisitions, not all of which will be consummated. We make public disclosure of pending and completed acquisitions when appropriate and required by applicable securities laws and regulations.  Acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties. If we complete one or more acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: the failure of the acquired businesses to achieve the results we have projected in either the near or long term; the assumption of unknown liabilities; the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed; the difficulties of imposing adequate financial and operating controls on the acquired companies and their management and the potential liabilities that might arise pending the imposition of adequate controls; the difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies; and the failure to achieve the strategic objectives of these acquisitions.  Our results of operations and our financial condition may be adversely affected by foreign operations.  We recently acquired three pharmaceutical distributors based in Canada and a provider of contract packaging and clinical trials materials services based in the United Kingdom, and expect to consider additional foreign acquisitions in the future. Our existing foreign operations and any operations we may acquire in the future carry risks in addition to the risks of acquisition, as described above. At any particular time, foreign operations may encounter risks and uncertainties regarding the governmental, political, economic, business and competitive environment within the countries in which those operations are based. Additionally, foreign operations expose us to foreign currency fluctuations that could impact our results of operations and financial condition based on the movements of the applicable foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. Dollar.  If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, our management may not be able to provide its report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007 as required pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to provide an unqualified attestation, or any attestation, on management’s assessment of the operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.  Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our management will be required to deliver a report in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007, similar to the one delivered herein, that assesses the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We also will be required to deliver an attestation report, similar to the one delivered herein, of our independent registered public accounting firm on our management’s assessment of, and operating effectiveness of, internal controls. We have undertaken substantial effort to assess, enhance and document our internal control systems, financial processes and     14    Table of Contents  information systems and expect to continue to do so during fiscal 2007 in preparation for the required annual evaluation process. Significant use of resources, both internal and external, will be required to make the requisite evaluation of the annual effectiveness of our internal controls. While we believe we have adequate internal controls and will meet our obligations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the work necessary for our management to issue the report in a timely manner or that management or our independent registered public accounting firm will conclude that our internal controls are effective.  In addition, ABDC’s controls are dependent, in part, on the third party service provider (IBM) to which we have outsourced responsibility for a significant portion of our information technology activities. If IBM does not perform satisfactorily and/or provide the assurances to us and our independent registered public accounting firm that are required, the ability of the Company and the accounting firm to conclude that our internal controls are effective could be adversely affected.  Our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment is subject to inflation in branded pharmaceutical prices and deflation in generic pharmaceutical prices, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties.  As part of our transition to fee-for-service, some distribution service agreements entered into with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers continue to have an inflation-based compensation component to them. Arrangements with a small number of branded manufacturers continue to be solely inflation-based. If the frequency or rate of branded pharmaceutical price inflation slows, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment distributes generic pharmaceuticals, which are subject to price deflation. If the frequency or rate of generic pharmaceutical price deflation accelerates, our results of operations could be adversely affected.  Risks generally associated with our sophisticated information systems may adversely affect our business and results of operations.  Our businesses rely on sophisticated information systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, and manage data to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; to receive, process, and ship orders on a timely basis; to account for other product and service transactions with customers; to manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; and to process payments to suppliers. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if these systems are interrupted or damaged by unforeseen events or if they fail for any extended period of time, including due to the actions of third parties. A third party service provider (IBM) is responsible for managing a significant portion of ABDC’s information systems. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if the third party service provider does not perform satisfactorily.  Certain of our businesses are considering substantial investments in information systems during fiscal 2007. To the extent the implementation of these systems fail, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.  Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  We are a large corporation with operations in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada and the United Kingdom. As such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments and of many foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, United States federal, state and local, as well as foreign, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge.  Our results of operations may suffer as a result of our proposed transaction with Kindred Healthcare, Inc. (“Kindred”) to combine our PharMerica Long-Term Care business with Kindred’s institutional pharmacy business into a new, publicly traded institutional pharmacy services provider.  The proposed transaction is conditioned, among other things, on a favorable determination by the Internal Revenue Service, implementation of financing arrangements and registration of the common stock of the new     15    Table of Contents  company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. There are numerous uncertainties associated with the completion of each of these steps in the transaction. In any event, the proposed transaction is not expected to be completed until the first calendar quarter of 2007. During the pendency of the proposed transaction, if the business focus of PharMerica Long-Term Care personnel is diverted as a result of activities related to the transaction or if PharMerica Long-Term Care loses any customers as a result thereof, our operating results may suffer. For the same reasons, if we are unable to successfully complete the proposed transaction, the ongoing performance and prospects of PharMerica Long-Term Care may be adversely affected.  Our earnings will suffer if we divest our PharMerica Long-Term Care business and are not able to replace the earnings of that business.  If we divest our PharMerica Long-Term Care business as a result of the proposed transaction, we will not have the benefit of the earnings associated with that business. Our earnings will suffer if we are not able to replace the earnings of the PharMerica Long-Term Care business upon the divestiture of that business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to replace the earnings of the PharMerica Long-Term Care business. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, PharMerica Long-Term Care’s operating income was $32.3 million.       ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS