ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  The following discussion describes certain risk factors that we believe could affect our business and prospects. These risks factors are in addition to those set for the elsewhere in this report.  Intense competition may erode our profit margins.  The distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare solutions is highly competitive. We compete with large wholesale distributors of pharmaceuticals such as Cardinal Health, Inc. and McKesson Corporation; regional and local distributors of pharmaceuticals; chain drugstores that warehouse their own pharmaceuticals; manufacturers who distribute their products directly to customers; specialty distributors; and other healthcare providers. The PMSI business also operates in a highly competitive environment.  Competitive pressures have contributed to a decline in our gross profit margins on operating revenue from 5.42% in fiscal 2001 to 3.77% in fiscal 2007. This trend may continue and our business could be adversely affected as a result.  Our operating revenue and results of operations may suffer upon the loss of a significant customer.  Our largest customer accounted for 14% of our total revenue and 8% of our operating revenue in fiscal 2007. Our top ten customers represented approximately 34% of fiscal 2007 operating revenue. We also have contracts with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), each of which functions as a purchasing agent on behalf of its members, who are hospitals, pharmacies or other healthcare providers. Approximately 8% of our operating revenue for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 was derived from our two largest GPO relationships (Novation and Premier). We may lose a significant customer or GPO relationship if any existing contract with such customer or GPO expires without being extended, renewed, renegotiated or replaced or is terminated by the customer or GPO prior to expiration, to the extent such early termination is permitted by the contract. A number of our contracts with significant customers or GPOs are typically subject to expiration each year and we may lose any of these customers or GPO relationships if we are unable to extend, renew, renegotiate or replace the contracts. The loss of any significant customer or GPO relationship could adversely affect our operating revenue and results of operations.  Our operating revenue and results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of a significant customer.  Most of our customers buy pharmaceuticals and other products and services from us on credit. Credit is made available to customers based on our assessment and analysis of creditworthiness. Although we often try to obtain a security interest in assets and other arrangements intended to protect our credit exposure, we generally     10    Table of Contents  are either subordinated to the position of the primary lenders to our customers or substantially unsecured. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of any customer that has a substantial amount owed to us could have a material adverse affect on our operating revenue and results of operations. At September 30, 2007, the largest trade receivable due from a single customer represented approximately 11% of accounts receivable, net.  Our results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of a significant supplier.  Our relationships with pharmaceutical suppliers give rise to substantial amounts that are owed to us from the suppliers, including amounts owed to us for returned goods or defective goods and amounts owed to us for services provided to the suppliers. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of any supplier at a time when the supplier has a substantial amount owed to us could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations.  Increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel may increase our costs and reduce our profitability.  The healthcare industry is highly regulated at the federal and state level. Consequently, we are subject to the risk of changes in various federal and state laws, which include operating and security standards of the DEA, the FDA, various state boards of pharmacy and comparable agencies. In recent years, some states have passed or have proposed laws and regulations, including laws and regulations obligating pharmaceutical distributors to provide prescription drug pedigrees, that are intended to protect the safety of the supply channel but that also may substantially increase the costs and burden of pharmaceutical distribution. For example, the Florida Prescription Drug Pedigree laws and regulations that became effective in July 2006 imposed obligations upon us to deliver prescription drug pedigrees to various categories of customers. In order to comply with the Florida requirements, we implemented an e-pedigree system at our distribution center in Florida that required significant capital outlays. Other states are considering laws and regulations that would require us to implement pedigree capabilities in those other states similar to the pedigree capabilities implemented for Florida. Effective January 1, 2009, California will require the implementation of costly track and trace chain of custody technologies, such as radio frequency identification (RFID) technologies. At the federal level, the FDA issued final regulations pursuant to the Pharmaceutical Drug Marketing Act that became effective in December 2006. The regulations impose pedigree and other chain of custody requirements that increase the costs and/or burden to us of selling to other pharmaceutical distributors and handling product returns. In December 2006, the federal District Court for the Eastern District of New York issued a preliminary injunction temporarily enjoining the implementation of certain provisions of the regulations in response to a case initiated by secondary distributors. On February 1, 2007, HHS and the FDA appealed this decision to the federal Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this legal proceeding.  In addition, the FDA Amendments Act of 2007, which went into effect on October 1, 2007, requires the FDA to establish standards and identify and validate effective technologies for the purpose of securing the pharmaceutical supply chain against counterfeit drugs. These standards may include any track-and-trace or authentication technologies, such as RFID and other technologies. The FDA must develop a standardized numerical identifier by April 1, 2010.  The suspension or revocation by the DEA of any of the registrations that must be in effect for our distribution facilities to purchase, store and distribute controlled substances or the refusal by DEA to issue a registration to any such facility that requires such registration in order to service our customers may adversely affect our reputation, our business and our results of operations.  On April 24, 2007, the DEA imposed an Order to Show Cause and Immediate Suspension on our Orlando, Florida distribution center’s license to distribute controlled substances and listed chemicals. The DEA alleged that we did not maintain effective controls at our Orlando, Florida distribution center against diversion of controlled substances to certain internet pharmacies. On June 22, 2007, we entered into a settlement with the     11    Table of Contents  DEA in which we expressly denied the DEA’s allegations and which led to the reinstatement of our Orlando, Florida distribution center’s suspended license to distribute controlled substances and listed chemicals to its retail customers on August 25, 2007. As required by the settlement agreement, we implemented an enhanced and more sophisticated order-monitoring program in all of our AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation distribution centers by June 30, 2007. We have passed all the DEA compliance reviews relating to the new program, and as a result, our Orlando, Florida distribution center’s license was reinstated effective August 25, 2007. While we expect to continue to comply with all of the DEA’s requirements, there can be no assurance that the DEA will not require further controls against the diversion of controlled substances in the future or will not take similar action against any other of our distribution centers in the future.  On October 1, 2007, we acquired Bellco Health, a privately held New York distributor of branded and generic pharmaceuticals. Bellco Health consists of two companies, Bellco Drug Corp. and American Medical Distributors, Inc. (“AMD”). The DEA registration of Bellco Drug was suspended in May 2007 prior to our acquisition of the business. AMD’s registration was not suspended but both AMD and Bellco Drug received an order to show cause why their registrations should not be revoked . The suspension of Bellco Drug’s registration and the order to show cause were based on Bellco Drug’s alleged failures to maintain effective controls against the diversion of controlled substances as required by federal law. In June 2007, Bellco Drug entered into a consent judgment with the DEA in which Bellco Drug expressly denied the allegations of diversion and agreed to voluntarily surrender its DEA registration with leave to apply for a new registration. The administrative proceeding on the order to show cause relating to AMD’s DEA registration was also dismissed at that time pursuant to a separate memorandum of understanding between AMD and DEA, which allowed AMD to continue serving its customers and to expand its DEA registration so that AMD could service Bellco Drug’s Metro New York City customers. Bellco Drug has applied for a new DEA registration. As a result of our acquisition of Bellco Health and our own settlement agreement with the DEA, we expect that the Bellco Drug application for a new DEA registration may be subject to particular review and scrutiny by the DEA. Denial by the DEA of Bellco Drug’s application for a new registration could adversely affect Bellco Health’s operations and ability to conduct business in the ordinary course and, therefore, could adversely affect both the value of the businesses that we just acquired and our overall results of operations.  Legal and regulatory changes reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our business and results of operations.  Both our own profit margins and the profit margins of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. Many of our contracts with healthcare providers are multi-year contracts from which we derive profit based upon reimbursement rates and methodology. Many of these contracts cannot be terminated or amended in the event of such legal and regulatory changes. Accordingly, such changes may have the effect of reducing, or even eliminating, our profitability on such contracts until the end of the applicable contract periods.  ABSG’s business may be adversely affected in the future by changes in Medicare reimbursement rates for certain pharmaceuticals, including oncology drugs administered by physicians. Since ABSG provides a number of services to or through physicians, this could result in slower growth or lower revenues for ABSG.  The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”) was intended to reduce net Medicare and Medicaid spending by approximately $11 billion over five years. Effective January 1, 2007, the DRA changed the federal upper payment limit for Medicaid reimbursement from 150% of the lowest published price for generic pharmaceuticals (which is usually the average wholesale price) to 250% of the lowest manufacturer price or AMP. On July 17, 2007, CMS published a final rule implementing these provisions and clarifying, among other things, the AMP calculation methodology and the DRA provision requiring manufacturers to publicly report AMP for branded and generic pharmaceuticals. CMS has stated that it expects the federal upper payment limits will become effective for covered outpatient multiple source prescription drugs beginning in January 2008. We expect the use of an AMP benchmark to result in a reduction in the Medicaid reimbursement rates to our customers for certain     12    Table of Contents  generic pharmaceuticals, which may indirectly impact the prices that we can charge our customers for generic pharmaceuticals and cause corresponding declines in our profitability. There can be no assurance that the changes under the DRA will not have an adverse impact on our business. We are continuing to work with our customers in this process. We are currently developing plans to mitigate the potential impact of these legislative and regulatory changes. If we fail to successfully develop and implement such plans, this change in reimbursement formula and related reporting requirements and other provisions of the DRA could adversely affect our results of operations.  Congress may take action before the end of the year to increase the Medicaid drug rebate amount for branded pharmaceuticals, amend the Medicare ASP calculation methodology, or otherwise modify Medicare/Medicaid drug payment policy.  Our operating revenue growth rate has been negatively impacted by a reduction in sales of certain anemia drugs, primarily those used in oncology, and may, in the future, be adversely affected by any further reductions in sales or restrictions on the use of anemia drugs or a decrease in Medicare reimbursement for these drugs. Several developments contributed to the decline in sales of anemia drugs, including the decision in March 2007 by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) to require an expanded warning label on these drugs, CMS’s review of reimbursement policies for these drugs, and restrictions on recommended dosage or use. In July 2007, CMS issued new, more restrictive policies regarding Medicare coverage of anemia drugs used in the treatment of oncology patients and for kidney failure and dialysis. The FDA held a meeting in September 2007 to discuss updated information about the safety of these anemia drugs for patients with chronic renal failure. On November 8, 2007, the FDA announced revised boxed warnings and other safety-related product labeling changes for these drugs addressing the risks posed to patients with cancer or chronic kidney failure. CMS also has indicated that it may impose additional restrictions on Medicare coverage in the future. Any further changes in the recommended dosage or use of anemia drugs or reductions in reimbursement for such drugs could result in slower growth or lower revenues.  First DataBank, Inc. (“First DataBank”) publishes drug databases that contain drug information and pricing data. The pricing data includes average wholesale price, or AWP, which is a pricing benchmark widely used to calculate a portion of the Medicaid and Medicare Part D reimbursements payable to pharmacy providers. AWP is also used to establish the pricing of pharmaceuticals to certain of our pharmaceutical distribution customers in Puerto Rico. In October 2006, First DataBank agreed to a proposed settlement in legal proceeding that would require First DataBank to stop publishing AWP two years after the settlement becomes effective, unless a competitor of First DataBank is publishing AWP at that future time. The settlement would also require First DataBank to change the way it calculates AWP during the two-year interim period. The proposed settlement is subject to several contingencies and has not yet received final approval by the court. We continue to evaluate the potential impact that it could have on the business of our customers and our business. There can be no assurance that the settlement, if approved, would not have an adverse impact on the business of our customers and/or our business.  The federal government may adopt measures in the future that would further reduce Medicare and/or Medicaid spending or impose additional requirements on health care entities. At this time, we can provide no assurances that such changes, if adopted, would not have an adverse effect on our business.  The changing United States healthcare environment may negatively impact our business and our profitability.  Our products and services are intended to function within the structure of the healthcare financing and reimbursement system currently existing in the United States. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. These changes include an increased reliance on managed care; cuts in Medicare funding affecting our healthcare provider customer base; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and customers; and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental support of healthcare services or adverse changes in     13    Table of Contents  legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. We expect continued government and private payor pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. Changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers’ pricing or distribution policies could also significantly reduce our profitability.  If we fail to comply with laws and regulations in respect of healthcare fraud and abuse, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations.  We are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The federal government continues to strengthen its position and scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud affecting Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Our relationships with healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers subject our business to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or for inducing the ordering or purchasing of items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other government-sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of designated health services under Medicare and Medicaid programs. Legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse give federal enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse. While we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws, many of the regulations applicable to us, including those relating to marketing incentives offered by pharmaceutical suppliers, are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.  Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we undertake acquisitions of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate.  We expect to continue to implement our growth strategy, in part, by acquiring companies. At any particular time, we may be in various stages of assessment, discussion and negotiation with regard to one or more potential acquisitions, not all of which will be consummated. We make public disclosure of pending and completed acquisitions when appropriate and required by applicable securities laws and regulations.  Acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties. If we complete one or more acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: the failure of the acquired businesses to achieve the results we have projected in either the near or long term; the assumption of unknown liabilities; the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed; the difficulties of imposing adequate financial and operating controls on the acquired companies and their management and the potential liabilities that might arise pending the imposition of adequate controls; the difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies; and the failure to achieve the strategic objectives of these acquisitions.  Our results of operations and our financial condition may be adversely affected by foreign operations.  In fiscal 2006, we acquired three pharmaceutical distributors based in Canada and a provider of contract packaging and clinical trials materials services based in the United Kingdom, and may consider additional foreign acquisitions in the future. Our existing foreign operations and any operations we may acquire in the future carry risks in addition to the risks of acquisition, as described above. At any particular time, foreign operations may encounter risks and uncertainties regarding the governmental, political, economic, business and competitive environment within the countries in which those operations are based. Additionally, foreign operations expose us to foreign currency fluctuations that could impact our results of operations and financial condition based on the movements of the applicable foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. Dollar.    14    Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, our management may not be able to provide its report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2008 as required pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to provide an unqualified attestation, or any attestation, regarding the operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.  Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our management will be required to deliver a report in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2008, similar to the one delivered herein, that assesses the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We also will be required to deliver an attestation report, similar to the one delivered herein, of our independent registered public accounting firm on the operating effectiveness of our internal controls. We have undertaken substantial effort to assess, enhance and document our internal control systems, financial processes and information systems and expect to continue to do so during fiscal 2008 in preparation for the required annual evaluation process. Significant use of resources, both internal and external, will be required to make the requisite evaluation of the annual effectiveness of our internal controls. While we believe we have adequate internal controls and will meet our obligations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the work necessary for our management to issue the report in a timely manner or that management or our independent registered public accounting firm will conclude that our internal controls are effective.  In addition, ABDC’s controls are dependent, in part, on the third party service provider (IBM) to which we have outsourced responsibility for a significant portion of our information technology activities. If IBM does not perform satisfactorily and/or provide the assurances to us and our independent registered public accounting firm that are required, the ability of the Company and the accounting firm to conclude that our internal controls are effective could be adversely affected.  Our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment is subject to inflation in branded pharmaceutical prices and deflation in generic pharmaceutical prices, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties.  As part of our transition to fee-for-service, some distribution service agreements entered into with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers continue to have an inflation-based compensation component to them. Arrangements with a small number of branded manufacturers continue to be solely inflation-based. As a result, approximately 20% of our gross profit from brand name manufacturers continues to be subject to fluctuation based upon the timing and extent of price appreciation. If the frequency or rate of branded pharmaceutical price inflation slows, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment distributes generic pharmaceuticals, which are subject to price deflation. If the frequency or rate of generic pharmaceutical price deflation accelerates, our results of operations could be adversely affected.  Risks generally associated with our sophisticated information systems may adversely affect our business and results of operations.  Our businesses rely on sophisticated information systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, and manage data to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; to receive, process, and ship orders on a timely basis; to account for other product and service transactions with customers; to manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; and to process payments to suppliers. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if these systems are interrupted or damaged by unforeseen events or if they fail for any extended period of time, including due to the actions of third parties. A third party service provider (IBM) is responsible for managing a significant portion of ABDC’s information systems. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if the third party service provider does not perform satisfactorily.  Certain of our businesses are considering substantial investments in information systems during fiscal 2008. To the extent the implementation of these systems fail, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.    15    Table of Contents Risks generally associated with implementation of an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system may adversely affect our business and results of operations.  We have announced intentions to implement an ERP system to handle the business, operating and financial processes within ABDC and within our Company at a corporate level. ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system software and implementation activities that can continue for several years. ERP implementations also require transformation of business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the ERP system. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if the we experience operating problems and/or cost overruns during the ERP implementation process or if the ERP system, and the associated process changes, do not give rise to the benefits that we expect.  Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  We are a large corporation with operations in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada and the United Kingdom. As such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments and of many foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, United States federal, state and local, as well as foreign, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge.   ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS