ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  The following discussion describes certain risk factors that we believe could affect our business and prospects. These risks factors are in addition to those set forth elsewhere in this report.  Intense competition as well as industry consolidations may erode our profit margins.  The distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare solutions is highly competitive. We compete with two national wholesale distributors of pharmaceuticals, Cardinal and McKesson; national generic distributors; regional and local distributors of pharmaceuticals; chain drugstores that warehouse their own pharmaceuticals; manufacturers that distribute their products directly to customers; specialty distributors; and packaging and healthcare technology companies (see “Competition”). In recent years, the healthcare industry has been subject to increasing consolidation. If this trend continues among our customers and suppliers, it could give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which may lead to greater pressure to reduce prices for our products and services.  Our results of operations continue to be subject to the risks and uncertainties of inflation in branded pharmaceutical prices and deflation in generic pharmaceutical prices.  As part of our transition to fee-for-service, some distribution service agreements that we have entered into with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers continue to have an inflation-based compensation component to them. Arrangements with a small number of branded manufacturers continue to be solely inflation-based. As a result, approximately 15% of our gross profit from brand-name manufacturers continues to be subject to fluctuation based upon the timing and extent of price appreciation. If the frequency or rate of branded pharmaceutical price inflation slows, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we distribute generic pharmaceuticals, which are subject to price deflation. If the frequency or rate of generic pharmaceutical price deflation accelerates, our results of operations could be adversely affected.  Declining economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations and performance depend on economic conditions in the United States and other countries where we do business. Deterioration in general economic conditions could adversely affect the amount of prescriptions that are filled and the amount of pharmaceutical products purchased by consumers and, therefore, reduce purchases by our customers, which would negatively affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our profitability. Interest rate fluctuations, financial market volatility or credit market disruptions may also negatively affect our customers’ ability to obtain credit to finance their businesses on acceptable terms. Reduced purchases by our customers or changes in payment terms could adversely affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our cash flow from operations. Bankruptcies or similar events affecting our customers may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. Declining economic conditions may also increase our costs. If the economic conditions in the United States or in the regions outside the United States where we do business do not improve or continue to deteriorate, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected.   10    Table of Contents Our stock price and our ability to access credit markets may be adversely affected by the current levels of financial market volatility and disruption, which are unprecedented.  The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. Recently, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience downward movement in our stock price without regard to our financial condition or results of operations or an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access credit generally, and on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.  Our receivables securitization facility expires in calendar 2009. While we did not have any borrowings outstanding under this facility as of September 30, 2008, we have historically utilized amounts available to us under this facility throughout the year to meet our business needs. In fiscal 2009, we will seek to renew this facility at available market rates, which we believe will be higher than the interest rates currently available to us. While we believe we will be able to renew this facility, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. Our total revenue and results of operations may suffer upon the loss of a significant customer.  Our largest customer, Medco Health Solutions, Inc., accounted for 17% of our total revenue in fiscal 2008. Our top ten customers represented approximately 42% of fiscal 2008 total revenue. We also have contracts with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), each of which functions as a purchasing agent on behalf of its members, who are hospitals, pharmacies or other healthcare providers. Approximately 7% of our total revenue in fiscal 2008 was derived from our two largest GPO relationships (Novation and Premier). We may lose a significant customer or GPO relationship if any existing contract with such customer or GPO expires without being extended, renewed, renegotiated or replaced or is terminated by the customer or GPO prior to expiration, to the extent such early termination is permitted by the contract. A number of our contracts with significant customers or GPOs are typically subject to expiration each year and we may lose any of these customers or GPO relationships if we are unable to extend, renew, renegotiate or replace the contracts. The loss of any significant customer or GPO relationship could adversely affect our total revenue and results of operations.  Our total revenue and results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of a significant customer.  Most of our customers buy pharmaceuticals and other products and services from us on credit. Credit is made available to customers based on our assessment and analysis of creditworthiness. Although we often try to obtain a security interest in assets and other arrangements intended to protect our credit exposure, we generally are either subordinated to the position of the primary lenders to our customers or substantially unsecured. The continued volatility of the capital and credit markets may adversely affect the solvency or creditworthiness of our customers. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of any customer that has a substantial amount owed to us could have a material adverse affect on our operating revenue and results of operations. At September 30, 2008, the largest trade receivable balance due from a single customer, which was our largest customer, represented approximately 9% of accounts receivable, net.    11    Table of Contents Our results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of a significant supplier.  Our relationships with pharmaceutical suppliers give rise to substantial amounts that are due to us from the suppliers, including amounts owed to us for returned goods or defective goods and amounts due to us for services provided to the suppliers. The continued volatility of the capital and credit markets may adversely affect the solvency or creditworthiness of our suppliers. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of any supplier at a time when the supplier has a substantial account payable balance due to us could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations.  Increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel may increase our costs and reduce our profitability.   The healthcare industry is highly regulated at the federal and state level. Consequently, we are subject to the risk of changes in various federal and state laws, which include operating and security standards of the DEA, the FDA, various state boards of pharmacy and comparable agencies. In recent years, some states have passed or have proposed laws and regulations, including laws and regulations obligating pharmaceutical distributors to provide prescription drug pedigrees, that are intended to protect the safety of the supply channel but that also may substantially increase the costs and burden of pharmaceutical distribution. For example, the Florida Prescription Drug Pedigree laws and regulations that became effective in July 2006 imposed obligations upon us to deliver prescription drug pedigrees to various categories of customers. In order to comply with the Florida requirements, we implemented an e-pedigree system at our distribution center in Florida that required significant capital outlays. Other states have adopted laws and regulations that would require us to implement pedigree capabilities in those other states similar to the pedigree capabilities implemented for Florida. For example, California has enacted a law requiring the implementation of costly track and trace chain of custody technologies, such as radio frequency identification (“RFID”) technologies although the effective date of the law has been postponed until January 1, 2015 for pharmaceutical manufacturers and until July 1, 2016 for pharmaceutical wholesalers and repackagers. At the federal level, the FDA issued final regulations pursuant to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act that became effective in December 2006. The regulations impose pedigree and other chain of custody requirements that increase the costs and/or burden to us of selling to other pharmaceutical distributors and handling product returns. In December 2006, the federal District Court for the Eastern District of New York issued a preliminary injunction temporarily enjoining the implementation of certain provisions of the regulations in response to a case initiated by secondary distributors. The federal Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed this injunction on July 10, 2008. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this legal proceeding.  In addition, the FDA Amendments Act of 2007 requires the FDA to establish standards and identify and validate effective technologies for the purpose of securing the pharmaceutical supply chain against counterfeit drugs. These standards may include track-and-trace or authentication technologies, such as RFID and other technologies. The FDA must develop a standardized numerical identifier by April 1, 2010. The increased costs of complying with these pedigree and other supply chain custody requirements could increase our costs or otherwise significantly affect our results of operations.  The suspension or revocation by the DEA of any of the registrations that must be in effect for our distribution facilities to purchase, store and distribute controlled substances or the refusal by DEA to issue a registration to any such facility that requires such registration may adversely affect our reputation, our business and our results of operations.  The DEA, FDA and various state regulatory authorities regulate the distribution of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances. We are required to hold valid DEA and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the Controlled Substance Act and its accompanying regulations governing the sale, marketing, packaging, holding and distribution of controlled substances. The DEA, FDA and state     12    Table of Contents  regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to suspend our distribution centers’ licenses to distribute pharmaceutical products (including controlled substances), seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations.  On April 24, 2007, the DEA suspended our Orlando, Florida distribution center’s license to distribute controlled substances and listed chemicals, alleging that the distribution center did not maintain effective controls against diversion of controlled substances to certain internet pharmacies. On June 22, 2007, we signed an agreement with the DEA, which led to the reinstatement of our Orlando, Florida distribution center’s license to distribute controlled substances and listed chemicals effective August 25, 2007. As required by the agreement, we implemented an enhanced and more sophisticated order-monitoring program in all of our ABDC distribution centers by June 30, 2007. In addition, in June 2007, one of our subsidiaries, Bellco Drug Corp., entered into a consent judgment with the DEA following the suspension of Bellco Drug’s DEA license in May 2007 prior to our acquisition of the business. The DEA had alleged that Bellco Drug had failed to maintain effective controls against the diversion of controlled substances as required by federal law. In the consent judgment, Bellco Drug voluntarily surrendered its DEA registration with leave to apply for a new registration. Bellco Drug received its new DEA registration on February 12, 2008 and resumed distribution of controlled substances. While we expect to continue to comply with all of the DEA’s requirements, there can be no assurance that the DEA will not require further controls against the diversion of controlled substances in the future or will not take similar action against any other of our distribution centers in the future.  Legal and regulatory changes reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our business and results of operations.  Both our own profit margins and the profit margins of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. Many of our contracts with healthcare providers are multi-year contracts from which we derive profit based upon reimbursement rates and methodologies in place at the time such contracts were entered into. Many of these contracts cannot be terminated or amended in the event of such legal and regulatory changes. Accordingly, such changes may have the effect of reducing, or even eliminating, our profitability on such contracts until the end of the applicable contract periods.  ABSG’s business may be adversely affected in the future by changes in Medicare reimbursement rates for certain pharmaceuticals, including oncology drugs administered by physicians. Since ABSG provides a number of services to or through physicians, this could result in slower growth or lower revenues for ABSG.  The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”) was intended to reduce net Medicare and Medicaid spending by approximately $11 billion over five years. Effective January 1, 2007, the DRA changed the federal upper payment limit for Medicaid reimbursement from 150% of the lowest published price for generic pharmaceuticals (which is usually the average wholesale price) to 250% of the lowest average manufacturer price (“AMP”). On July 17, 2007, CMS published a final rule implementing these provisions and clarifying, among other things, the AMP calculation methodology and the DRA provision requiring manufacturers to publicly report AMP for branded and generic pharmaceuticals. In December 2007, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia issued a preliminary injunction that enjoins CMS from implementing certain provisions of the AMP rule to the extent that it affects Medicaid reimbursement rates for retail pharmacies under the Medicaid program. The order also enjoins CMS from disclosing AMP data to states and other entities. On July 15, 2008, Congress enacted the Medicaid Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (“MIPPA”). MIPPA delays the adoption of CMS’s July 17, 2007 rule and prevents CMS from publishing AMP data until October 1, 2009. We expect the use of an AMP benchmark to result in a reduction in the Medicaid reimbursement rates to our customers for certain generic pharmaceuticals, which may indirectly impact the prices that we can charge our customers for generic pharmaceuticals and cause corresponding declines in our profitability. There can be no assurance that the changes under the DRA will not have an adverse impact on our business. Unless we are able to     13    Table of Contents  develop plans to mitigate the potential impact of these legislative and regulatory changes, these changes in reimbursement formula and related reporting requirements and other provisions of the DRA could adversely affect our results of operations.  In December 2007, President Bush signed the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 into law. Among other things, the law requires CMS to adjust Medicare Part B drug average sales price (“ASP”) calculations to use volume-weighed ASPs based on actual sales volume, effective April 1, 2008. This change could reduce Medicare reimbursement rates for some Part B drugs, which may indirectly impact the prices we can charge our customers for pharmaceuticals and result in reductions in our profitability.  President Bush’s fiscal year 2009 budget proposal, released February 4, 2008, contains a series of proposals that affect Medicare and Medicaid, including a proposal to further reduce the upper limit reimbursement for multiple source drugs to 150% of the AMP and replace the “best price” component of the Medicaid drug rebate formula with a budget-neutral flat rebate. Many of the proposed policy changes would require Congressional approval to implement. There can be no assurance that future revisions to Medicare or Medicaid payments, if enacted, will not have an adverse impact on our business.  Our revenue growth rate has been negatively impacted by a reduction in sales of certain anemia drugs, primarily those used in oncology, and may, in the future, be adversely affected by any further reductions in sales or restrictions on the use of anemia drugs or a decrease in Medicare reimbursement for these drugs. Several developments contributed to the decline in sales of anemia drugs, including expanded warning and other product safety labeling requirements, more restrictive federal policies governing Medicare reimbursement for the use of these drugs to treat oncology patients with kidney failure and dialysis, and changes in regulatory and clinical medical guidelines for recommended dosage and use. In addition, the FDA has announced that it is reviewing new clinical study data concerning the possible risks associated with erythropoiesis stimulating agents and may take additional action with regard to these drugs. CMS has indicated that it may impose additional restrictions on Medicare coverage in the future. Also, on July 30, 2008, CMS announced it is considering a review of national Medicare coverage policy for these drugs for patients who have cancer or pre-dialysis chronic kidney disease. Any further changes in the recommended dosage or use of anemia drugs or reductions in reimbursement for such drugs could result in slower growth or lower revenues.  First DataBank, Inc. publishes drug databases that contain drug information and pricing data. The pricing data includes average wholesale price, or AWP, which is a pricing benchmark widely used to calculate a portion of the Medicaid and Medicare Part D reimbursements payable to pharmacy providers. AWP is also used to establish the pricing of pharmaceuticals to certain of our pharmaceutical distribution customers in Puerto Rico. First DataBank is involved in class action litigation concerning the way it calculates AWP pricing data. On May 29, 2008, the plaintiffs and First DataBank filed an amended settlement (following an original proposed settlement in 2006) that would, among other things, adjust its AWP reporting practices for certain prescription drugs by applying a reduced markup factor (20% versus 25%) to approximately 1,400 national drug codes. On June 3, 2008, the federal district court overseeing the litigation granted preliminary approval to the revised settlement and subsequently approved the process for class notification. The matter is still subject to opposition by others, a fairness hearing, which has been scheduled for December 17, 2008, and final court approval. First DataBank also announced that, independent of the settlement, it would reduce to 20% the markup on all drugs with a mark-up higher than 20% and stop publishing AWP within two years after the mark-up changes are implemented. We continue to evaluate the potential impact that a proposed settlement could have on the business of our customers and our business. If a revised settlement or other resolution of the case is approved, we will evaluate the potential impact of such settlement or other resolution on us at that time. There can be no assurance that a settlement or other resolution, if approved, would not have an adverse impact on the business of our customers and/or our business.  The federal government may adopt measures in the future that would further reduce Medicare and/or Medicaid spending or impose additional requirements on health care entities. At this time, we can provide no assurances that such changes, if adopted, would not have an adverse effect on our business.    14    Table of Contents The changing United States healthcare environment may negatively impact our business and our profitability.  Our products and services are intended to function within the structure of the healthcare financing and reimbursement system currently existing in the United States. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. These changes include an increased reliance on managed care; cuts in certain Medicare funding affecting our healthcare provider customer base; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and customers; and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental funding for certain healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. We expect continued government and private payor pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. Changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers’ pricing or distribution policies could also significantly reduce our profitability.  If we fail to comply with laws and regulations in respect of healthcare fraud and abuse, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations.  We are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The federal government continues to strengthen its position and scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud affecting Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Our relationships with healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers subject our business to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or the ordering or purchasing of items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other government-sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of designated health services under Medicare and Medicaid programs. Legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse give federal enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse. While we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, many of the regulations applicable to us, including those relating to marketing incentives offered in connection with pharmaceutical sales, are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.  Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we undertake acquisitions of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate.  We expect to continue to implement our growth strategy, in part, by acquiring companies. At any particular time, we may be in various stages of assessment, discussion and negotiation with regard to one or more potential acquisitions, not all of which will be consummated. We make public disclosure of pending and completed acquisitions when appropriate and required by applicable securities laws and regulations.  Acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties. If we complete one or more acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: the failure of the acquired businesses to achieve the results we have projected in either the near or long term; the assumption of unknown liabilities; the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed; the difficulties of imposing adequate financial and operating controls on the acquired companies and their management and the potential liabilities that might arise pending the imposition of adequate controls; the difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies; and the failure to achieve the strategic objectives of these acquisitions.    15    Table of Contents Our results of operations and our financial condition may be adversely affected by foreign operations.  We have pharmaceutical distribution operations based in Canada and provide contract packaging and clinical trials materials services in the United Kingdom. We may consider additional foreign acquisitions in the future. Our existing foreign operations and any operations we may acquire in the future carry risks in addition to the risks of acquisition, as described above. At any particular time, foreign operations may encounter risks and uncertainties regarding the governmental, political, economic, business and competitive environment within the countries in which those operations are based. Additionally, foreign operations expose us to foreign currency fluctuations that could impact our results of operations and financial condition based on the movements of the applicable foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar.  Risks generally associated with our sophisticated information systems may adversely affect our business and results of operations.  Our businesses rely on sophisticated information systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, and manage data to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; to receive, process, and ship orders on a timely basis; to account for other product and service transactions with customers; to manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; and to process payments to suppliers. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if these systems are interrupted or damaged by unforeseen events or if they fail for any extended period of time, including due to the actions of third parties. A third party service provider (IBM) is responsible for managing a significant portion of ABDC’s information systems. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if the third party service provider does not perform satisfactorily.  Certain of our businesses continue to make substantial investments in information systems. To the extent the implementation of these systems fail, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.  Risks generally associated with implementation of an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system may adversely affect our business and results of operations or the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.  We are preparing to implement an ERP system to handle the business and financial processes within ABDC’s operations and our corporate functions. ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system software and implementation activities that can continue for several years. ERP implementations also require transformation of business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the ERP system. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems and/or cost overruns during the ERP implementation process or if the ERP system, and the associated process changes, do not give rise to the benefits that we expect.  Additionally, if the Company does not effectively implement the ERP system or if the system does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.  Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  We are a large corporation with operations in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada and the United Kingdom. As such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments and of many foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, United States federal, state and local, as well as foreign, tax laws and regulations, are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge.    16    Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS