Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a discussion of how a further downgrade in our credit ratings could affect us.Capital ResourcesCredit Arrangements and BorrowingsAt September 30, 2018, we had no borrowings against our revolving credit facility. At September 30, 2018, we had $5.5 billion in long-term debt outstanding, with our next debt maturity in the amount of $600 million due in 2020. We do not have any triggers on any of our corporate debt that would cause an event of default in the case of a downgrade of our credit ratings.Shelf RegistrationWe have a universal shelf registration statement filed with the SEC under which we, as a "well-known seasoned issuer" for purposes of SEC rules, have the ability to issue and sell an indeterminate amount of various types of debt and equity securities. Asset DisposalIn the second quarter of 2018, we entered into an agreement to sell a non-core property in our International E&P segment for proceeds of $56 million, before closing adjustments. We expect this transaction to close by year-end.46Debt-To-Capital RatioThe Credit Facility includes a covenant requiring that our ratio of total debt to total capitalization not exceed 65% as of the last day of the fiscal quarter. Our debt-to-capital ratio was 31% at September 30, 2018, compared to 32% at December 31, 2017. September 30, December 31,(In millions)2018 2017Long-term debt due within one year$— $—Long-term debt5,498 5,494Total debt$5,498 $5,494Equity$12,044 $11,708Calculation:   Total debt$5,498 $5,494Total debt plus equity (total capitalization)$17,542 $17,202Debt-to-capital ratio 31% 32%Capital RequirementsOther Expected Cash OutflowsOn October 30, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a dividend of $0.05 per share for the third quarter of 2018 payable December 10, 2018 to stockholders of record at the close of business on November 21, 2018. As of September 30, 2018, we plan to make contributions of up to $6 million to our funded pension plans during the remainder of 2018. Contractual Cash ObligationsAs of September 30, 2018, there are no material changes to our consolidated cash obligations to make future payments under existing contracts, as disclosed in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 47Environmental Matters and Other ContingenciesWe have incurred and will continue to incur capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. If these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately offset by the prices we receive for our products and services, our operating results will be adversely affected.There have been no significant changes to the environmental, health and safety matters under Item 1. Business or Item 3. Legal Proceedings in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of other contingencies. Forward-Looking StatementsThis report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). All statements other than statements of historical fact, including without limitation statements regarding our future performance, business strategy, reserve estimates, asset quality, production guidance, drilling plans, capital plans, cost and expense estimates, asset acquisitions and dispositions, future financial position and other plans and objectives for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “intend," “may,” “plan,” “project,” “seek,” “should,” “target,” “will,” “would” or similar words may be used to identify forward-looking statements; however, the absence of these words does not mean that the statements are not forward-looking. While we believe our assumptions concerning future events are reasonable, a number of factors could cause results to differ materially from those projected, including, but not limited to: •conditions in the oil and gas industry, including supply and demand levels for crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas and the resulting impact on price;•changes in expected reserve or production levels; •changes in political and economic conditions in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, and global and domestic market conditions; •risks related to our hedging activities;•liability resulting from litigation;•capital available for exploration and development; •the inability of any party to satisfy closing conditions or delays in execution with respect to our asset acquisitions and dispositions;•drilling and operating risks;•well production timing; •availability of drilling rigs, materials and labor, including the costs associated therewith; •difficulty in obtaining necessary approvals and permits; •non-performance by third parties of contractual obligations; •unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, acts of war or terrorist acts and the governmental or military response thereto;•cyber-attacks;•changes in safety, health, environmental, tax and other regulations; •other geological, operating and economic considerations; and•the risk factors, forward-looking statements and challenges and uncertainties described in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other filings with the SEC. All forward-looking statements included in this report are based on information available to us on the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 48Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risks in the normal course of business including commodity price risk and interest rate risk. We employ various strategies, including the use of financial derivatives to manage the risks related to commodity price fluctuations. See Note 13 and Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for detail relating to our open commodity derivative positions, including underlying notional quantities, how they are reported in our consolidated financial statements and how their fair values are measured.Commodity Price Risk As of September 30, 2018, we had various open commodity derivatives related to crude oil and natural gas with a net liability position of $210 million. Based on the September 30, 2018 published NYMEX WTI and Henry Hub futures prices, a hypothetical 10% change (per bbl for crude oil and per MMBtu for natural gas) increases (decreases) the fair values of our net commodity derivative open positions as follows:(In millions) Hypothetical Price Increase of 10% Hypothetical Price Decrease of 10%    Crude oil derivatives $(156) $130Natural gas derivatives(1) 2Total$(157) $132Interest Rate Risk At September 30, 2018 our portfolio of long-term debt is comprised of fixed-rate instruments with an outstanding balance of $5.5 billion. Our sensitivity to interest rate movements and corresponding changes in the fair value of our fixed-rate debt portfolio affects our results of operations and cash flows only when we elect to repurchase or otherwise retire fixed-rate debt at prices different than carrying value.Item 4. Controls and ProceduresAn evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. As of the end of the period covered by this Report based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the design and operation of these disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of September 30, 2018. During the first nine months of 2018, there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.49Part II – OTHER INFORMATIONItem 1. Legal Proceedings There have been no significant changes to Item 3. Legal Proceedings in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item I for a description of such legal and administrative proceedings.Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe are subject to various risks and uncertainties in the course of our business. There have been no material changes to the risk factors under Item 1A. Risk Factors in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds