Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this document. Realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.Risks Related to Operating our BusinessOur businesses are dependent on the supply of and demand for the products that we handle.Our pipelines, terminals and other assets and facilities depend in part on continued production of natural gas, oil and other products in the geographic areas that they serve. Our business also depends in part on the levels of demand for natural gas, oil, NGL, refined petroleum products, CO2, coal, steel, chemicals and other products in the geographic areas to which our pipelines, terminals, shipping vessels and other facilities deliver or provide service, and the ability and willingness of our shippers and other customers to supply such demand. For example, without additions to oil and gas reserves, production will decline over time as reserves are depleted, and production costs may rise. Producers may reduce or shut down production during times of lower product prices or higher production costs to the extent they become uneconomic. Producers in areas served by us may not be successful in exploring for and developing additional reserves, and our pipelines and related facilities may not be able to maintain existing volumes of throughput. Commodity prices and tax incentives may not remain at levels that encourage producers to explore for and develop additional reserves, produce existing marginal reserves or renew transportation contracts as they expire.Changes in the business environment, such as declining or sustained low commodity prices, supply disruptions, or higher development or production costs, could result in a slowing of supply to our pipelines, terminals and other assets. In addition, changes in the overall demand for hydrocarbons, the regulatory environment or applicable governmental policies, including in relation to climate change or other environmental concerns, may have a negative impact on the supply of crude oil and other products. In recent years, a number of initiatives and regulatory changes relating to reducing GHG emissions have been undertaken by federal, provincial, state and municipal governments and oil and gas industry participants. In addition, emerging technologies and public opinion have resulted in increasing demand for energy efficiency, including energy provided from renewable energy sources rather than fossil fuels and fuel-efficient alternatives such as hybrid and electric vehicles. These factors could result in not only increased costs for producers of hydrocarbons but also an overall decrease in the demand for hydrocarbons. Each of the foregoing could negatively impact our business directly as well as our shippers and other customers, which in turn could negatively impact our prospects for new contracts for transportation, terminaling or other midstream services, or renewals of existing contracts or the ability of our customers and shippers to honor their contractual commitments. See “—Financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us” below.21We cannot predict the impact of future economic conditions, fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, governmental regulation or technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices, all of which could reduce the production of and/or demand for the products we handle. In addition, irrespective of supply of or demand for products we handle, implementation of new regulations or changes to existing regulations affecting the energy industry could have a material adverse effect on us. See “—The FERC, the CPUC, or the NEB may establish pipeline tariff rates that have a negative impact on us. In addition, the FERC, the CPUC, the NEB, or our customers could initiate proceedings or file complaints challenging the tariff rates charged by our pipelines, which could have an adverse impact on us.”Expanding our existing assets and constructing new assets is part of our growth strategy. Our ability to begin and complete construction on expansion and new-build projects may be inhibited by difficulties in obtaining, or our inability to obtain, permits and rights-of-way, as well as public opposition, increases in costs of construction materials, cost overruns, inclement weather and other delays. Should we pursue expansion of or construction of new projects through joint ventures with others, we will share control and benefits from those projects.We regularly undertake major construction projects to expand our existing assets and to construct new assets. New growth projects generally will be subject to, among other things, the receipt of regulatory approvals, feasibility and cost analyses, funding availability and industry, market and demand conditions. If we pursue joint ventures with third parties, those parties may share approval rights over major decisions, and may act in their own interests. Their views may differ from our own or our views of the interests of the venture which could result in operational delays or impasses, which in turn could affect the financial expectations of and our benefits from the venture. A variety of factors outside of our control, such as difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way or other regulatory approvals, have caused, and may continue to cause, delays in or cancellations of our construction projects. Regulatory authorities may modify their permitting policies in ways that disadvantage our construction projects, such as the FERC’s consideration of changes to its Certificate Policy Statement. Such factors can be exacerbated by public opposition to our projects. See “—We are subject to reputational risks and risks related to public opinion.” For example, changing public attitudes toward pipelines bearing fossil fuels may impede our ability to secure rights of way or governmental reviews and authorizations on a timely basis or at all. Inclement weather, natural disasters and delays in performance by third-party contractors have also resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased costs or delays in construction. Significant increases in costs of construction materials, cost overruns or delays, or our inability to obtain a required permit or right-of-way, could have a material adverse effect on our return on investment, results of operations and cash flows, and could result in project cancellations or limit our ability to pursue other growth opportunities.We face competition from other pipelines and terminals, as well as other forms of transportation and storage.Any current or future pipeline system or other form of transportation (such as barge, rail or truck) that delivers the products we handle into the areas that our pipelines serve could offer transportation services that are more desirable to shippers than those we provide because of price, location, facilities or other factors. Likewise, competing terminals or other storage options may become more attractive to our customers. To the extent that competitors offer the markets we serve more desirable transportation or storage options, this could result in unused capacity on our pipelines and in our terminals. We also could experience competition for the supply of the products we handle from both existing and proposed pipeline systems; for example, several pipelines access many of the same areas of supply as our pipeline systems and transport to destinations not served by us. If capacity on our assets remains unused, our ability to re-contract for expiring capacity at favorable rates or otherwise retain existing customers could be impaired.The volatility of oil, NGL and natural gas prices could adversely affect our CO2 business segment and businesses within our Natural Gas Pipelines and Products Pipelines business segments.The revenues, cash flows, profitability and future growth of some of our businesses depend to a large degree on prevailing oil, NGL and natural gas prices. Our CO2 business segment (and the carrying value of its oil, NGL and natural gas producing properties) and certain midstream businesses within our Natural Gas Pipelines business segment depend to a large degree, and certain businesses within our Product Pipelines business segment depend to a lesser degree, on prevailing oil, NGL and natural gas prices. For 2019, we estimate that every $1 change in the average WTI crude oil price per barrel would impact our DCF by approximately $8 million, each $0.10 per MMBtu change in the average price of natural gas would impact DCF by approximately $1 million, and each 1% change in the ratio of the weighted-average NGL price per barrel to the WTI crude oil price per barrel would impact DCF by approximately $3 million.Prices for oil, NGL and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, NGL and natural gas, uncertainties within the market and a variety of other factors beyond our control. These factors include, among other things (i) weather conditions and events such as hurricanes in the U.S.; (ii) domestic and global economic conditions; (iii) the activities of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; (iv) governmental 22regulation; (v) political instability in oil producing countries; (vi) the foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; (vii) the price of foreign imports; (viii) the proximity and availability of storage and transportation infrastructure and processing and treating facilities; and (ix) the availability and prices of alternative fuel sources. We use hedging arrangements to partially mitigate our exposure to commodity prices, but these arrangements also are subject to inherent risks. Please read “—Our use of hedging arrangements does not eliminate our exposure to commodity price risks and could result in financial losses or volatility in our income.”A sharp decline in the prices of oil, NGL or natural gas, or a prolonged unfavorable price environment, would result in a commensurate reduction in our revenues, income and cash flows from our businesses that produce, process, or purchase and sell oil, NGL, or natural gas, and could have a material adverse effect on the carrying value of our CO2 business segment’s proved reserves. If prices fall substantially or remain low for a sustained period and we are not sufficiently protected through hedging arrangements, we may be unable to realize a profit from these businesses and would operate at a loss. In recent decades, there have been periods worldwide of both overproduction and underproduction of hydrocarbons, and periods of both increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts. Such conditions have resulted in periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis. These periods have been followed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and natural gas. The cycles of excess or short supply of crude oil or natural gas have placed pressures on prices and resulted in dramatic price fluctuations even during relatively short periods of seasonal market demand. These fluctuations impact the accuracy of assumptions used in our budgeting process. For more information about our energy and commodity market risk, see Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk-Energy Commodity Market Risk.”Commodity transportation and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise adversely affect our operations.There are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent to the transportation and storage of the products we handle, such as leaks; releases; the breakdown, underperformance or failure of equipment, facilities, information systems or processes; damage to our pipelines caused by third-party construction; the compromise of information and control systems; spills at terminals and hubs; spills associated with the loading and unloading of harmful substances at rail facilities; adverse sea conditions (including storms and rising sea levels) and releases or spills from our shipping vessels or vessels loaded at our marine terminals; operator error; labor disputes/work stoppages; disputes with interconnected facilities and carriers; operational disruptions or apportionment on third-party systems or refineries on which our assets depend; and catastrophic events such as natural disasters, fires, floods, explosions, earthquakes, acts of terrorists and saboteurs, cyber security breaches, and other similar events, many of which are beyond our control. Additional risks to our vessels include capsizing, grounding and navigation errors.The occurrence of any of these risks could result in serious injury and loss of human life, significant damage to property and natural resources, environmental pollution, significant reputational damage, impairment or suspension of operations, fines or other regulatory penalties, and revocation of regulatory approvals or imposition of new requirements, any of which also could result in substantial financial losses, including lost revenue and cash flow to the extent that an incident causes an interruption of service. For pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks may be greater. In addition, the consequences of any operational incident (including as a result of adverse sea conditions) at one of our marine terminals may be even more significant as a result of the complexities involved in addressing leaks and releases occurring in the ocean or along coastlines and/or the repair of marine terminals.Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions.Unfavorable economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in several industries, including the oil and gas industry, the steel industry, the coal industry and in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. In addition, uncertain or changing economic conditions within one or more geographic regions may affect our operating results within the affected regions. Volatility in commodity prices or changes in markets for a given commodity might also have a negative impact on many of our customers, which could impair their ability to meet their obligations to us. See “—Financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us.” In addition, decreases in the prices of crude oil, NGL and natural gas will have a negative impact on our operating results and cash flow. See “—The volatility of oil, NGL and natural gas prices could adversely affect our CO2 business segment and businesses within our Natural Gas Pipelines and Products Pipelines business segments.”23If economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets) globally, in the U.S. or in other key markets become more volatile or deteriorate, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us.We are exposed to the risk of loss in the event of nonperformance by our customers or other counterparties, such as hedging counterparties, joint venture partners and suppliers. Many of our counterparties finance their activities through cash flow from operations or debt or equity financing, and some of them may be highly leveraged. Our counterparties are subject to their own operating, market, financial and regulatory risks, and some are experiencing, or may experience in the future, severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness. For example, PG&E, a customer of Ruby, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in January 2019. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—General—Investment in Ruby.” Further, the security that is permitted to be obtained from such customers may be limited by FERC regulation. While certain of our customers are subsidiaries of an entity that has an investment grade credit rating, in many cases the parent entity has not guaranteed the obligations of the subsidiary and, therefore, the parent’s credit ratings may have no bearing on such customers’ ability to pay us for the services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us. Furthermore, financially distressed customers might be forced to reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which also could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.We cannot provide any assurance that such customers and key counterparties will not become financially distressed or that such financially distressed customers or counterparties will not default on their obligations to us or file for bankruptcy protection. If one of such customers or counterparties files for bankruptcy protection, we likely would be unable to collect all, or even a significant portion, of amounts owed to us. Significant customer and other counterparty defaults and bankruptcy filings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.The acquisition of additional businesses and assets is part of our growth strategy. We may experience difficulties completing acquisitions or integrating new businesses and properties, and we may be unable to achieve the benefits we expect from any future acquisitions.Part of our business strategy includes acquiring additional businesses and assets. We evaluate and pursue assets and businesses that we believe will complement or expand our operations in accordance with our growth strategy. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to complete acquisitions in the future or achieve the desired results from any acquisitions we do complete. Any acquired business or assets will be subject to many of the same risks as our existing businesses and may not achieve the levels of performance that we anticipate.If we do not successfully integrate acquisitions, we may not realize anticipated operating advantages and cost savings. Integration of acquired companies or assets involves a number of risks, including (i) the loss of key customers of the acquired business; (ii) demands on management related to the increase in our size; (iii) the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations; (iv) difficulties in implementing or unanticipated costs of accounting, budgeting, reporting, internal controls and other systems; and (v) difficulties in the retention and assimilation of necessary employees.We may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies have achieved or might achieve separately. Successful integration of each acquisition will depend upon our ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. Difficulties in integration may be magnified if we make multiple acquisitions over a relatively short period of time. Because of difficulties in combining and expanding operations, we may not be able to achieve the cost savings and other size-related benefits that we hoped to achieve after these acquisitions, which would harm our financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to reputational risks and risks relating to public opinion.Our business, operations or financial condition generally may be negatively impacted as a result of negative public opinion. Public opinion may be influenced by negative portrayals of the industry in which we operate as well as opposition to development projects. In addition, market events specific to us could result in the deterioration of our reputation with key stakeholders. Potential impacts of negative public opinion or reputational issues may include delays or stoppages in expansion projects, legal or regulatory actions or challenges, blockades, increased regulatory oversight, reduced support from regulatory 24authorities, challenges to regulatory approvals, difficulty securing financing for and cost overruns affecting expansion projects and the degradation of our business generally.Reputational risk cannot be managed in isolation from other forms of risk. Credit, market, operational, insurance, regulatory and legal risks, among others, must all be managed effectively to safeguard our reputation. Our reputation and public opinion could also be impacted by the actions and activities of other companies operating in the energy industry, particularly other energy infrastructure providers, over which we have no control. In particular, our reputation could be impacted by negative publicity related to pipeline incidents or unpopular expansion projects and due to opposition to development of hydrocarbons and energy infrastructure, particularly projects involving resources that are considered to increase GHG emissions and contribute to climate change. Negative impacts from a compromised reputation or changes in public opinion (including with respect to the production, transportation and use of hydrocarbons generally) could include revenue loss, reduction in customer base, delays in obtaining, or challenges to, regulatory approvals with respect to growth projects and decreased value of our securities and our business.The future success of our oil and gas development and production operations depends in part upon our ability to develop additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable.The rate of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Without successful development activities, the reserves, revenues and cash flows of the oil and gas producing assets within our CO2 business segment will decline. We may not be able to develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost or have necessary financing for these activities in the future. Additionally, if we do not realize production volumes greater than, or equal to, our hedged volumes, we may suffer financial losses not offset by physical transactions.The development of crude oil and gas properties involves risks that may result in a total loss of investment.The business of developing and operating oil and gas properties involves a high degree of business and financial risk that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Acquisition and development decisions generally are based on subjective judgments and assumptions that, while they may be reasonable, are by their nature speculative. It is impossible to predict with certainty the production potential of a particular property or well. Furthermore, the successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment. A variety of geological, operational and market-related factors, including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, equipment failures or accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pollution and other environmental risks, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions, may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well or otherwise prevent a property or well from being profitable. A productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered, which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well. In addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances.Our use of hedging arrangements does not eliminate our exposure to commodity price risks and could result in financial losses or volatility in our income.We engage in hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of crude oil, natural gas and NGL. These hedging arrangements expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production is less than expected, when the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price received. In addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in prices for crude oil and natural gas.The markets for instruments we use to hedge our commodity price exposure generally reflect then-prevailing conditions in the underlying commodity markets. As our existing hedges expire, we will seek to replace them with new hedging arrangements. To the extent underlying market conditions are unfavorable, new hedging arrangements available to us will reflect such unfavorable conditions.The accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are very complex, and even when we engage in hedging transactions (for example, to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity price or currency exchange rates or to balance our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates) that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes. Accordingly, our consolidated financial statements may reflect some volatility due to these hedges, even when there is no underlying economic impact at the dates of those statements. In addition, it may not be possible for us to engage in hedging transactions that completely eliminate our exposure to commodity prices; therefore, our consolidated financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices for which we are unable to enter 25into a completely effective hedge. For more information about our hedging activities, see Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Hedging Activities” and Note 14 “Risk Management” to our consolidated financial statements.A breach of information security or failure of one or more key information technology or operational (IT) systems, or those of third parties, may adversely affect our business, results of operations or business reputation.Our business is dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. The various uses of these IT systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to, controlling our pipelines and terminals with industrial control systems, collecting and storing information and data, processing transactions, and handling other processing necessary to manage our business.If any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. A significant failure, compromise, breach or interruption in our systems could result in a disruption of our operations, customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation and a loss of customers or revenues. Efforts by us and our vendors to develop, implement and maintain security measures may not be successful in preventing these events from occurring, and any network and information systems-related events could require us to expend significant resources to remedy such event. In the future, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities.Attacks, including acts of terrorism or cyber sabotage, or the threat of such attacks, may adversely affect our business or reputation.The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other infrastructure assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations or “cyber sabotage” events. For example, in 2018, a cyberattack on a shared data network forced four U.S. natural gas pipeline operators to temporarily shut down computer communications with their customers. Potential targets include our pipeline systems, terminals, processing plants or operating systems. The occurrence of an attack could cause a substantial decrease in revenues and cash flows, increased costs to respond or other financial loss, damage to our reputation, increased regulation or litigation or inaccurate information reported from our operations. There is no assurance that adequate cyber sabotage and terrorism insurance will be available at rates we believe are reasonable in the near future. These developments may subject our operations to increased risks, as well as increased costs, and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition or could harm our business reputation.Hurricanes, earthquakes, flooding and other natural disasters, as well as subsidence and coastal erosion, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Some of our pipelines, terminals and other assets are located in, and our shipping vessels operate in, areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, earthquakes, flooding and other natural disasters or could be impacted by subsidence and coastal erosion. These natural disasters and phenomena could potentially damage or destroy our assets and disrupt the supply of the products we transport. In the third quarter of 2017, Hurricane Harvey caused disruptions in our operations and damage to our assets near the Texas Gulf Coast requiring approximately $45 million in repair costs, approximately $10 million of which was not recoverable through insurance. For more information regarding the impact of Hurricane Harvey on our assets and operating results, see Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Many climate models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels, increased intensity of weather, and increased frequency of extreme precipitation and flooding. These climate-related changes could damage physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone and rain-susceptible regions. In addition, we may experience increased insurance premiums and deductibles, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. Natural disasters and phenomena can similarly affect the facilities of our customers. In either case, losses could exceed our insurance coverage and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. See Items 1 and 2 “Business and Properties—(c) Narrative Description of Business—Environmental Matters.”26Substantially all of the land on which our pipelines are located is owned by third parties. If we are unable to procure and maintain access to land owned by third parties, our revenue and operating costs, and our ability to complete construction projects, could be adversely affected.We must obtain and maintain the rights to construct and operate pipelines on other owners’ land, including private landowners, railroads, public utilities and others. While our interstate natural gas pipelines in the U.S. have federal eminent domain authority, the availability of eminent domain authority for our other pipelines varies from state to state depending upon the type of pipeline—petroleum liquids, natural gas, CO2, or crude oil—and the laws of the particular state. In any case, we must compensate landowners for the use of their property, and in eminent domain actions, such compensation may be determined by a court. If we are unable to obtain rights-of-way on acceptable terms, our ability to complete construction projects on time, on budget, or at all, could be adversely affected. In addition, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs under our right-of-way or rental agreements with landowners, primarily through renewals of expiring agreements and rental increases. If we were to lose these rights, our operations could be disrupted or we could be required to relocate the affected pipelines, which could cause a substantial decrease in our revenues and cash flows and a substantial increase in our costs.Our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce, and difficulties recruiting and retaining our workforce could result in a failure to implement our business plans.Our operations and management require the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce, including engineers, technical personnel and other professionals. We and our affiliates compete with other companies in the energy industry for this skilled workforce. In addition, many of our current employees are retirement eligible and have significant institutional knowledge that must be transferred to other employees. If we are unable to (i) retain current employees; (ii) successfully complete the knowledge transfer; and/or (iii) recruit new employees of comparable knowledge and experience, our business could be negatively impacted. In addition, we could experience increased costs to retain and recruit these professionals.The increased financial reporting and other obligations of management resulting from KML’s obligations as a public company may divert management’s attention away from other business operations.KML, in which we own an approximate 70% interest, completed its IPO in Canada in May of 2017 and in 2018, completed the sale of its interest in the TMPL as described under Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—General—KML—Sale of Trans Mountain Pipeline System and Its Expansion Project.” Certain of our officers and directors also serve as officers and directors of KML, and we provide financial reporting support and other services as requested by KML and its controlled affiliates pursuant to a Services Agreement. The increased obligations associated with providing support to KML as a public company may divert our management’s attention from other business concerns and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to financial reporting and other obligations that place significant demands on our management, administrative, operational, legal, internal audit and accounting resources. The demands on our personnel related to KML’s obligations as a public company will be intensified as a result of the management and personnel departures and related transition following the sale of our interest in the TMPL.If we are unable to retain our executive officers, our ability to execute our business strategy, including our growth strategy, may be hindered.Our success depends in part on the performance of and our ability to retain our executive officers, particularly Richard D. Kinder, our Executive Chairman and one of our founders, Steve Kean, our Chief Executive Officer, and Kim Dang, our President. Along with the other members of our senior management, Mssrs. Kinder and Kean and Ms. Dang have been responsible for developing and executing our growth strategy. If we are not successful in retaining Mr. Kinder, Mr. Kean, Ms. Dang or our other executive officers, or replacing them, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. We do not maintain key personnel insurance.Our Terminals business segment is subject to U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rate fluctuations as a result of operations in Canada.We are a U.S. dollar reporting company. As a result of the operations of our Terminals business segment in Canada, a portion of our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenues, cash flows and expenses are denominated in Canadian dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between U.S. and Canadian dollars could expose us to reductions in the U.S. dollar value of our earnings and cash flows and a reduction in our stockholders’ equity under applicable accounting rules.27Our insurance policies do not cover all losses, costs or liabilities that we may experience, and insurance companies that currently insure companies in the energy industry may cease to do so or substantially increase premiums.Our insurance program may not cover all operational risks and costs and may not provide sufficient coverage in the event of a claim. We do not maintain insurance coverage against all potential losses and could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Losses in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Changes in the insurance markets subsequent to certain hurricanes and natural disasters have made it more difficult and more expensive to obtain certain types of coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance, or failure by one or more of our insurers to honor its coverage commitments for an insured event, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Insurance companies may reduce the insurance capacity they are willing to offer or may demand significantly higher premiums or deductibles to cover our assets. If significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at a reasonable cost. There is no assurance that our insurers will renew their insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. The unavailability of full insurance coverage to cover events in which we suffer significant losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Risks Related to Financing Our BusinessOur substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions.As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately $36.6 billion of consolidated debt (excluding debt fair value adjustments). Additionally, we and substantially all of our wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries are parties to a cross guarantee agreement under which each party to the agreement unconditionally guarantees the indebtedness of each other party, which means that we are liable for the debt of each of such subsidiaries. This level of consolidated debt and the cross guarantee agreement could have important consequences, such as (i) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or potential growth, or for other purposes; (ii) increasing the cost of our future borrowings; (iii) limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make payments on our debt; (iv) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt; and (v) increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.Our ability to service our consolidated debt, and our ability to meet our consolidated leverage targets, will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our consolidated cash flow is not sufficient to service our consolidated debt, and any future indebtedness that we incur, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing dividends, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We may also take such actions to reduce our indebtedness if we determine that our earnings (or consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, as calculated in accordance with our revolving credit facility) may not be sufficient to meet our consolidated leverage targets, or to comply with consolidated leverage ratios required under certain of our debt agreements. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. For more information about our debt, see Note 9 “Debt” to our consolidated financial statements.Our business, financial condition and operating results may be affected adversely by increased costs of capital or a reduction in the availability of credit.Adverse changes to the availability, terms and cost of capital, interest rates or our credit ratings (which would have a corresponding impact on the credit ratings of our subsidiaries that are party to the cross guarantee agreement) could cause our cost of doing business to increase by limiting our access to capital, including our ability to refinance maturities of existing indebtedness on similar terms, which could in turn reduce our cash flows and limit our ability to pursue acquisition or expansion opportunities. Our credit ratings may be impacted by our leverage, liquidity, credit profile and potential transactions. Although the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities, our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our and our subsidiaries’ debt securities and the terms available to us for future issuances of debt securities.28Also, disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability, impacting our ability to finance our operations on favorable terms. A significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our large amount of variable rate debt makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates.As of December 31, 2018, approximately $11.4 billion of our approximately $36.6 billion of consolidated debt (excluding debt fair value adjustments) was subject to variable interest rates, either as short-term or long-term variable-rate debt obligations, or as long-term fixed-rate debt effectively converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps. Should interest rates increase, the amount of cash required to service variable-rate debt would increase, as would our costs to refinance maturities of existing indebtedness, and our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected. For more information about our interest rate risk, see Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Interest Rate Risk.”Acquisitions and growth capital expenditures may require access to external capital. Limitations on our access to external financing sources could impair our ability to grow.We have limited amounts of internally generated cash flows to fund acquisitions and growth capital expenditures. If our internally generated cash flows are not sufficient to fund one or more capital projects or acquisitions, we may have to rely on external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and issuances of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and growth capital expenditures. Limitations on our access to external financing sources, whether due to tightened capital markets, more expensive capital or otherwise, could impair our ability to execute our growth strategy.Our debt instruments may limit our financial flexibility and increase our financing costs.The instruments governing our debt contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that may be beneficial to us. Some of the agreements governing our debt generally require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on (i) incurring additional debt; (ii) entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; (iii) granting liens; and (iv) entering into sale-leaseback transactions. The instruments governing any future debt may contain similar or more limiting restrictions. Our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted.Our and our customer’s access to capital could be affected by evolving financial institutions’ policies concerning businesses linked to fossil fuels.Our and our customer’s access to capital could be affected by evolving financial institutions’ policies concerning businesses linked to fossil fuels. Public opinion toward industries linked to fossil fuels continues to evolve. Concerns about the potential effects of climate change have caused some to direct their attention towards sources of funding for fossil-fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in energy-related activities. Ultimately, this could make it more difficult for our customers to secure funding for exploration and production activities, and consequently could both indirectly affect demand for our services and directly affect our ability to fund construction or other capital projects.Risks Related to Ownership of Our Capital StockThe guidance we provide for our anticipated dividends is based on estimates. Circumstances may arise that lead to conflicts between using funds to pay anticipated dividends or to invest in our business.We disclose in this report and elsewhere the expected cash dividends on our common stock. These reflect our current judgment, but as with any estimate, they may be affected by inaccurate assumptions and other risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. See “Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report. If our board of directors elects to pay dividends at the anticipated level and that action would leave us with insufficient cash to take timely advantage of growth opportunities (including through acquisitions), to meet any large unanticipated liquidity requirements, to fund our operations, to maintain our leverage metrics or otherwise to address properly our business prospects, our business could be harmed. 29Conversely, a decision to address such needs might lead to the payment of dividends below the anticipated levels. As events present themselves or become reasonably foreseeable, our board of directors, which determines our business strategy and our dividends, may decide to address those matters by reducing our anticipated dividends. Alternatively, because nothing in our governing documents or credit agreements prohibits us from borrowing to pay dividends, we could choose to incur debt to enable us to pay our anticipated dividends. This would add to our substantial debt discussed above under “—Risks Related to Financing Our Business—Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions.”Our certificate of incorporation restricts the ownership of our common stock by non-U.S. citizens within the meaning of the Jones Act. These restrictions may affect the liquidity of our common stock and may result in non-U.S. citizens being required to sell their shares at a loss.The Jones Act requires, among other things, that at least 75% of our common stock be owned at all times by U.S. citizens, as defined under the Jones Act, in order for us to own and operate vessels in the U.S. coastwise trade. As a safeguard to help us maintain our status as a U.S. citizen, our certificate of incorporation provides that, if the number of shares of our common stock owned by non-U.S. citizens exceeds 22%, we have the ability to redeem shares owned by non-U.S. citizens to reduce the percentage of shares owned by non-U.S. citizens to 22%. These redemption provisions may adversely impact the marketability of our common stock, particularly in markets outside of the U.S. Further, those stockholders would not have control over the timing of such redemption, and may be subject to redemption at a time when the market price or timing of the redemption is disadvantageous. In addition, the redemption provisions might have the effect of impeding or discouraging a merger, tender offer or proxy contest by a non-U.S. citizen, even if it were favorable to the interests of some or all of our stockholders.Risks Related to RegulationThe FERC, the CPUC, or the NEB may establish pipeline tariff rates that have a negative impact on us. In addition, the FERC, the CPUC, the NEB, or our customers could initiate proceedings or file complaints challenging the tariff rates charged by our pipelines, which could have an adverse impact on us.The profitability of our regulated pipelines is influenced by fluctuations in costs and our ability to recover any increases in our costs in the rates charged to our shippers. To the extent that our costs increase in an amount greater than what we are permitted by the FERC, the CPUC, or the NEB to recover in our rates, or to the extent that there is a lag before we can file for and obtain rate increases, such events can have a negative impact on our operating results.Our existing rates may also be challenged by complaint. Regulators and shippers on our pipelines have rights to challenge, and have challenged, the rates we charge under certain circumstances prescribed by applicable regulations. Some shippers on our pipelines have filed complaints with the regulators that seek substantial refunds for alleged overcharges during the years in question and prospective reductions in the tariff rates. Further, the FERC may continue to initiate investigations to determine whether interstate natural gas pipelines have over-collected on rates charged to shippers. We may face challenges, similar to those described in Note 18 “Litigation, Environmental and Other Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements, to the rates we charge on our pipelines. In addition, following the 2017 Tax Reform, which reduced the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, the FERC initiated the Form 501-G process to review the estimated impact of the 2017 Tax Reform on interstate pipelines with respect to tax recovery in existing jurisdictional rates. See Note 18 “Litigation, Environmental and Other Contingencies—FERC Proceedings” to our consolidated financial statements. Any successful challenge to our rates could materially adversely affect our future earnings, cash flows and financial condition.New laws, policies, regulations, rulemaking and oversight, as well as changes to those currently in effect, could adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and operations.Our assets and operations are subject to regulation and oversight by federal, state, provincial and local regulatory authorities. Legislative changes, as well as regulatory actions taken by these agencies, have the potential to adversely affect our profitability. In addition, a certain degree of regulatory uncertainty is created by the current U.S. presidential administration because it remains unclear specifically what the current administration may do with respect to future policies and regulations that may affect us. Regulation affects almost every part of our business and extends to such matters as (i) federal, state, provincial and local taxation; (ii) rates (which include tax, reservation, commodity, surcharges, fuel and gas lost and unaccounted for), operating terms and conditions of service; (iii) the types of services we may offer to our customers; (iv) the contracts for service entered into with our customers; (v) the certification and construction of new facilities; (vi) the costs of raw materials, such as steel, which may be affected by tariffs or otherwise; (vii) the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; (viii) the acquisition of other businesses; (ix) the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of services 30or facilities; (x) reporting and information posting requirements; (xi) the maintenance of accounts and records; and (xii) relationships with affiliated companies involved in various aspects of the energy businesses. Should we fail to comply with any applicable statutes, rules, regulations, and orders of regulatory authorities, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines and potential loss of government contracts. Furthermore, new laws, regulations or policy changes sometimes arise from unexpected sources. New laws or regulations, unexpected policy changes or interpretations of existing laws or regulations, such as the 2017 Tax Reform and the resulting Form 501-G process initiated by FERC, applicable to our income, operations, assets or another aspect of our business, could have a material adverse impact on our earnings, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. For more information, see Items 1 and 2 “Business and Properties—(c) Narrative Description of Business—Regulation.” Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could expose us to significant costs and liabilities.Our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and potential liabilities arising under or relating to the protection or preservation of the environment, natural resources and human health and safety. Such laws and regulations affect many aspects of our present and future operations, and generally require us to obtain and comply with various environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. Liability under such laws and regulations may be incurred without regard to fault under CERCLA, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Clean Water Act, the Oil Pollution Act or analogous state or provincial laws as a result of the presence or release of hydrocarbons and other hazardous substances into or through the environment, and these laws may require response actions and remediation and may impose liability for natural resource and other damages. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipelines pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with such laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs and/or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us.Failure to comply with these laws and regulations including required permits and other approvals also may expose us to civil, criminal and administrative fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could harm our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. For example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines, shipping vessels or storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up or otherwise respond to the leak, release or spill, pay government penalties, address natural resource damage, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or undertake a combination of these and other measures. The resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our earnings and cash flows.We own and/or operate numerous properties that have been used for many years in connection with our business activities. While we believe we have utilized operating, handling, and disposal practices that were consistent with industry practices at the time, hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances may have been released at or from properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors, or at or from properties where our or our predecessors’ wastes have been taken for disposal. In addition, many of these properties have been owned and/or operated by third parties whose management, handling and disposal of hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances were not under our control. These properties and the hazardous substances released and wastes disposed on them may be subject to laws in the U.S. such as CERCLA, which impose joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. Under the regulatory schemes of the various Canadian provinces, such as British Columbia’s Environmental Management Act, Canada has similar laws with respect to properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors. Under such laws and implementing regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, including contamination caused by prior owners or operators. Imposition of such liability schemes could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial position.Further, we cannot ensure that such existing laws and regulations will not be revised or that new laws or regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. For example, the Federal Clean Air Act and other similar federal, state and provincial laws are subject to periodic review and amendment, which could result in more stringent emission control requirements obligating us to make significant capital expenditures at our facilities.  There can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. For more information, see Items 1 and 2 “Business and Properties—(c) Narrative Description of Business—Environmental Matters.”31Increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of our pipelines may require us to incur significant capital and operating expense outlays to comply.We are subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pipeline integrity at the federal, state and provincial level. There are, for example, federal guidelines issued by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) for pipeline companies in the areas of testing, education, training and communication. The ultimate costs of compliance with the integrity management rules are difficult to predict. The majority of compliance costs relate to pipeline integrity testing and repairs. Technological advances in in-line inspection tools, identification of additional threats to a pipeline’s integrity and changes to the amount of pipeline determined to be located in “High Consequence Areas” can have a significant impact on integrity testing and repair costs. We plan to continue our integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by the DOT rules. The results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines.Further, additional laws and regulations that may be enacted in the future or a new interpretation of existing laws and regulations could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures. There can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity regulation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not deemed by regulators to be fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects.Climate change and related regulation could result in significantly increased operating and capital costs for us and could reduce demand for our products and services.Various laws and regulations exist or are under development that seek to regulate the emission of GHGs such as methane and CO2, including the EPA programs to control GHG emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs. Existing EPA regulations require us to report GHG emissions in the U.S. from sources such as our larger natural gas compressor stations, fractionated NGL, and production of naturally occurring CO2 (for example, from our McElmo Dome CO2 field), even when such production is not emitted to the atmosphere. Proposed approaches to further regulate GHG emissions include establishing GHG “cap and trade” programs, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for pollution reduction, use of renewable energy sources, or use of alternative fuels with lower carbon content. For more information about climate change regulation, see Items 1 and 2 “Business and Properties—(c) Narrative Description of Business—Environmental Matters—Climate Change.”Adoption of any such laws or regulations could increase our costs to operate and maintain our facilities and could require us to install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances for our GHG emissions, pay taxes related to our GHG emissions and administer and manage a GHG emissions program, and such increased costs could be significant. Recovery of such increased costs from our customers is uncertain in all cases and may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the FERC. Such laws or regulations could also lead to reduced demand for hydrocarbon products that are deemed to contribute to GHGs, or restrictions on their use, which in turn could adversely affect demand for our products and services.Finally, many climate models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels and increased frequency and severity of weather events, which may lead to higher insurance costs, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. These climate-related changes could damage our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone and rain-susceptible regions.Any of the foregoing could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.Increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, as well as reductions in production from existing wells, which could adversely impact the volumes of natural gas transported on our natural gas pipelines and our own oil and gas development and production activities.We gather, process or transport crude oil, natural gas or NGL from several areas in which the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent. Oil and gas development and production activities are subject to numerous federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. The oil and gas industry is increasingly relying on supplies of hydrocarbons from unconventional sources, such as shale, tight sands and coal bed methane. The extraction of hydrocarbons from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing involves the pressurized 32injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate gas production and is a commonly used stimulation process employed by oil and gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells. There have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing. Adoption of legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of crude oil, natural gas or NGL and, in turn, adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of these commodities that we handle.In addition, many states are promulgating stricter requirements not only for wells but also compressor stations and other facilities in the oil and gas industry sector. These laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. Specifically, these activities are subject to laws and regulations regarding the acquisition of permits before drilling, restrictions on drilling activities and location, emissions into the environment, water discharges, transportation of hazardous materials, and storage and disposition of wastes. In addition, legislation has been enacted that requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities. These laws and regulations may adversely affect our oil and gas development and production activities.Derivatives regulation could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business.The Dodd-Frank Act requires the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations establishing federal oversight and regulation of the OTC derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. Those rules and regulations are largely complete; although in December 2016, the CFTC re-proposed new rules pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act that would institute broad new aggregate position limits for OTC swaps and futures and options traded on regulated exchanges. Thus, we cannot predict how further rules and regulations will affect us.If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The Jones Act includes restrictions on ownership by non-U.S. citizens of our U.S. point to point maritime shipping vessels, and failure to comply with the Jones Act, or changes to or a repeal of the Jones Act, could limit our ability to operate our vessels in the U.S. coastwise trade, result in the forfeiture of our vessels or otherwise adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and operations.We are subject to the Jones Act, which generally restricts U.S. point-to-point maritime shipping to vessels operating under the U.S. flag, built in the U.S., owned and operated by U.S.-organized companies that are controlled and at least 75% owned by U.S. citizens and crewed by predominately U.S. citizens. Our business would be adversely affected if we fail to comply with the Jones Act provisions on coastwise trade. If we do not comply with any of these requirements, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the U.S. coastwise trade and, under certain circumstances, we could be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved transfer to non-U.S. citizens that could result in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of vessels. Our business could be adversely affected if the Jones Act were to be modified or repealed so as to permit foreign competition that is not subject to the same U.S. government imposed burdens.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments