Item 1a. Risk FactorsOur Annual Report contains detailed cautionary statements which identify all known material risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical or expected results. There have been no material changes to the risk factors we have previously disclosed in Item 1a, Risk Factors, in our Annual Report, except as set forth below.Risks associated with the proposed spin-off or sale of McGraw-Hill Education is updated in its entirety as follows:•We previously announced a tax-free spin-off of McGraw-Hill Education and we are also considering a potential sale of the business. Any spin-off or sale would be subject to various regulatory approvals, and may be affected by unanticipated developments or changes in market conditions. These factors could prevent the completion of or otherwise adversely affect or delay the proposed transaction. •Completion of a spin-off or sale requires significant time, effort, and expense. Any delays in the anticipated completion of the transaction may increase the expenses which we incur to complete the transaction. In the case of a spin-off, McGraw-Hill Education could also face unanticipated problems in operating independently, and thus may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the separation. •If consummated, the spin-off will result in two separate independent public companies each of which will be a smaller, less diversified company than we currently are with a narrower business focus than we currently have. In addition, diversification of revenues, costs, and cash flows may diminish. As such, it is possible that the results of operations, cash flows, working capital and financing requirements of the two separate businesses may be subject to increased volatility. These same considerations would apply to the Company in the case of a sale of McGraw-Hill Education. •A spin-off transaction requires us to hire, retain and develop our senior management and a highly skilled workforce for two separate businesses. Any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop current leadership positions or to hire and 42Table of Contents retain a skilled workforce could affect our institutional knowledge base and our competitive advantage. In the case of either a spin-off or sale, our employees may also be distracted due to uncertainty about their future roles with each of the separate companies pending the completion of the transaction. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees and higher employee turnover.•In addition, we have and plan to outsource certain support functions to third-party service providers to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. If the service providers to which we outsource these functions to do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and, depending on the function involved, we may experience business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or harm employee morale.Risk factors specific to Commodities & Commercial is updated as follows:•On October 5, 2012, the International Organization of Securities Commissions ("IOSCO") issued its final report to the G-20, including Principles for Oil Price Reporting Agencies, which sets out principles IOSCO states are intended to enhance the reliability of oil price assessments that are referenced in derivative contracts subject to regulation by IOSCO members.•We do not believe that any new regulatory or self-regulatory oversight regime would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds