Item 1a. Risk FactorsOur Form 10-K contains detailed cautionary statements which identify all known material risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical or expected results. The information presented below updates, and should be read in conjunction with, the risk factors and information disclosed in our Form 10-K. Except as presented below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors we have previously disclosed in Item 1a, Risk Factors, in our Form 10-K.Regulatory changes and economic conditions leading up to and following the United Kingdom’s likely exit from the European Union could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.•Following a referendum on June 23, 2016 in which voters in the United Kingdom ("U.K.") approved an exit from the European Union ("EU"), it is expected that the U.K. government will initiate a process to leave the EU (often referred to as Brexit) and begin negotiating the terms of the U.K.’s future relationship with the EU. •Any impact from Brexit on the Company will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, trade and other negotiations. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations between the U.K and the EU as the U.K. determines which EU laws to replace or replicate and the EU determines how to treat regulated activities (e.g., the activities of credit rating agencies) originating in the U.K. Our businesses are subject to increasing regulation of the financial services and commodities industries in Europe. Potential changes in EU regulation and/or additional regulation in the U.K. could cause additional operating obligations and increased costs for our businesses.•Any of these effects of Brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, business opportunities, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds