Item 1A. Risk Factors – Risks Relating to Our Business, included in this report.    EMPLOYEES    On October 31, 2009, the Company had about 6,600 employees. The Company believes that its relations with its employees are good.    NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE CERTIFICATION    We submitted our 2009 annual Section 12(a) CEO certification with the New York Stock Exchange. The certification was not qualified in any respect. Additionally, we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2009, the CEO and CFO certifications required under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.    AVAILABLE INFORMATION    The Cooper Companies, Inc. Internet address is http://www.coopercos.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, along with all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), are publicly available free of charge on our Web site as soon as reasonably practicable. The public may read and copy these materials at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a Web site that contains such reports, proxy and information statements and other information whose Internet address is http://www.sec.gov. The Company’s Corporate Governance Principles, Ethics and Business Conduct Policy and charters of each standing committee of the Board of Directors are also posted on the Company’s Web site. The information on the Company’s Web site is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC.    16    Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors.    Our business faces significant risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report.    Risks Relating to Our Business    We operate in the highly competitive healthcare industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully.    Each of our businesses operates within a highly competitive environment. In our soft contact lens segment, CVI faces intense competition from competitors’ products, in particular silicone hydrogel contact lenses, and may face increasing competition as other new products enter the market. Our major competitors in the contact lens business, Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc., CIBA Vision (owned by Novartis AG) and Bausch & Lomb, have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and larger manufacturing volumes than CVI.    Our major competitors in the specialty contact lens business offer competitive products and newer materials, plus a variety of other eye care products including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses. Moreover, silicone hydrogel lenses are gaining market acceptance in the specialty lens business, particularly in the U.S., and while we have recently introduced our own competitive silicone hydrogel specialty product, our late introduction of this product versus competitive products may not be sufficient to prevent erosion of our specialty lens market share and margins.    The market for our non-specialty, commodity contact lenses is also intensely competitive and is characterized by declining sales volumes for older product lines and growing demand for silicone hydrogel based products. Our ability to respond to these competitive pressures will depend on our ability to decrease our costs and maintain gross margins and operating results and to successfully introduce new products, on a timely basis in the United States, Europe and Japan, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies and sufficient manufacturing capacity and capabilities for such products. Any significant decrease in our costs per lens will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales volume and production capabilities. Our failure to respond to competitive pressures in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.    To a lesser extent, CVI also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and providers of other forms of vision correction including ophthalmic surgery.    There can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, or that our competitors’ newer specialty lens products will not successfully erode CVI’s higher-margin specialty lens business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.    In the women’s healthcare segment, competitive factors include technological and scientific advances, product quality, price and effective communication of product information to physicians and hospitals. CSI competes with a number of manufacturers in each of its niche areas, some of which have    17    Table of Contents  substantially greater financial and personnel resources and sell a much broader range of products, which may give them an advantage in marketing competitive products.    Current market conditions and recessionary pressures in one or more of our markets could impact our ability to grow our business.    In the United States and globally, current market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower economic growth. The U.S. economy has been in a recession for the past two years and faces continued concerns about the systemic impacts of adverse economic conditions such as inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and an unstable real estate market. Countries globally are affected by similar systemic impacts. We continue to experience slower than historical growth in contact lens sales, particularly in the U.S. and continue to have lower than historical expectations for market growth in 2010.    As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Continued turbulence in the United States and international market and economic conditions may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. If these market conditions continue, they may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to timely replace maturing liabilities and to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.    If current market conditions do not improve, the demand for contact lenses may materially decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.    Product innovations are important in the industry in which we operate, and we face the risk of product obsolescence.    Product innovations are important in the contact lens business in which CVI competes and in the niche areas of the healthcare industry in which CSI competes. Historically, we did not allocate substantial resources to new product development, but rather purchased, leveraged or licensed the technology developments of others. However, since 2005, we have been investing more in new product development, including the development of silicone hydrogel-based contact lenses. Although our focus is on products that will be marketable immediately or in the short to medium term rather than on funding longer-term, higher risk research and development projects, time commitments, the cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approval and other costs related to product innovations can be substantial. There can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for our new products or that our new products will successfully compete in the marketplace and, as a result, justify the expense involved in their development and regulatory approval. In addition, our competitors may have developed or may in the future develop new products or technologies that could lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products. Competitors may also introduce new uses for contact lenses, such as for drug delivery or the control of myopia. Failure to develop new product offerings and technological changes and to offer products that provide performance that is at least comparable to competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.    18    Table of Contents If our products are not accepted by the market, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business.    Certain of our proposed products have not yet been clinically tested or commercially introduced, and we cannot assure that any of them, assuming they receive necessary regulatory approvals, will achieve market acceptance or generate operating profits. In addition, we have been slower to introduce silicone hydrogel specialty contact lens products than our competitors. Market acceptance and customer demand for these products are uncertain. The development of a market for our products may be influenced by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including:      •    acceptance of our products by eye care and women’s healthcare practitioners;      •    the cost competitiveness of our products;      •    consumer reluctance to try and use a new product;      •    regulatory requirements;      •    adequate coverage and reimbursement by third party payors;      •    the earlier release of competitive products, such as silicone hydrogel products, into the market by our competitors; and      •    the emergence of newer and more competitive products.    New medical and technological developments may reduce the need for our products.    Technological developments in the eye care and women’s healthcare industries, such as new surgical procedures or medical devices, may limit demand for our products. Corneal refractive surgical procedures such as Lasik surgery and the development of new pharmaceutical products may decrease the demand for our optical products. If these new advances were to provide a practical alternative to traditional vision correction, the demand for contact lenses and eyeglasses may materially decrease. We cannot assure that medical advances and technological developments will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses.    Our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results.    A significant portion of our current operations for CVI are conducted and located outside the United States, and our growth strategy involves expanding our existing foreign operations and entering into new foreign jurisdictions. We have significant manufacturing and distribution sites in North America and Europe. Approximately 63% and 62% of our net sales for CVI for the years ended October 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were derived from the sale of products outside the United States. Further, we believe that sales outside the United States will continue to account for a material portion of our total net sales for the foreseeable future. International operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including:      •    foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the United States;      •    failure to comply with United States Department of Commerce export controls may result in fines and/or penalties;      •    tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the United States, and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions;    19    Table of Contents   •    we may find it difficult to comply with a variety of foreign regulatory requirements;      •    general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy;      •    we may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries;      •    foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities;      •    we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems;      •    fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results;      •    we may have difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries;      •    we do not have rights to market or sell our Biofinity silicone hydrogel products in Japan and we do not have regulatory approval to market and sell Avaira in Japan;      •    we may have difficulty gaining market share in countries such as Japan because of regulatory restrictions and customer preferences; and      •    we may find it difficult to enter new markets such as China, India and other developing nations due to, among other things, customer acceptance, undeveloped distribution channels and business knowledge of these new markets.    As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results.    Acquisitions that we may make may involve numerous risks.    We have a history of acquiring businesses and products that have significantly contributed to our growth in recent years. As part of our growth strategy, particularly at CSI, we intend to continue to consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization and/or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks we could face with respect to acquisitions include:      •    difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company and establishment of appropriate accounting controls and reporting procedures and other regulatory compliance procedures;      •    risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience;      •    potential loss of employees;      •    an inability to identify and consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all;      •    diversion of management’s attention away from other business concerns;      •    expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities of the acquired company;      •    expenses, including restructuring expenses, to shut-down our own locations and/or terminate our employees;    20    Table of Contents   •    a dilution of earnings per share; and      •    risks inherent in accounting allocations and consequences thereof, such as whether a strategic or financial buyer would view such allocations as establishing a fair value for so-called tangible and intangible assets.    We face risks associated with disruption of manufacturing and distribution operations and failure to develop new manufacturing processes that could adversely affect our profitability or competitive position.    We manufacture a significant portion of the medical device products we sell. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events), enforcement action by the FDA or other regulatory body if we are found to be in non-compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMPSs) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, materials, such as silicone hydrogel require improvements to our manufacturing processes to make them cost effective. While we have improved our manufacturing capabilities for our silicone hydrogel products, our failure to continue to develop improvements to our manufacturing processes and reduce our cost of goods could significantly impact our ability to compete.    CVI manufactures molded contact lenses, which represent a significant portion of our contact lens revenues, primarily at our facilities in the United Kingdom and Puerto Rico. CSI manufactures the majority of its products in Trumbull, Connecticut, Stafford, Texas, and Pasadena, California. We manufacture certain products at only one manufacturing site for certain markets, and certain of our products are approved for manufacturing only at one site. Before we can use a second manufacturing site, we must obtain the approval of regulatory authorities, and because this process is expensive, we have generally not sought approvals needed to manufacture at an additional site. If there were any prolonged disruption in the operations of the approved facility, it could take a significant amount of time to validate a second site and replace lost product, which could result in lost customers and thereby reduce sales, profitability and market share.    CVI distributes products out of Rochester, New York, and the United Kingdom and various smaller international distribution facilities. CSI’s products are primarily distributed out of its facility in Trumbull, Connecticut. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.    If our manufacturing operations fail to comply with applicable regulations, our manufacturing could be delayed or disrupted, and our product sales and profitability could suffer.    Our manufacturing operations and processes are required to comply with numerous federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, including the FDA’s cGMP and QSR regulations, which govern the procedures related to the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage, importing, exporting and shipping of our products. We also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. In addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the FDA, state    21    Table of Contents  authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. Failure to pass a cGMP, QSR or similar foreign inspection or to comply with these and other applicable regulatory requirements could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays in addition to, among other things, significant fines, suspension of approvals, seizures, recalls or import holds of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. As a result, any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability.    We are in the process of shutting down manufacturing facilities and have excess manufacturing capacity which may reduce our reported earnings.    We are in the process of shutting down manufacturing facilities completely in Norfolk, Virginia and partially in Adelaide, Australia, and transferring production to our facilities in Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. Changing production facilities on product lines creates operational risk and products having regulatory approvals tied to the closed facilities will require regulatory approval from the new facility. Any failure to successfully transfer our production could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. In addition, depending on our market growth, we may have more production capacity than necessary to meet future demand. If we are unable to put purchased capacity into production, we may have to write-off new or existing lines which would adversely impact our reported earnings.    We rely on independent suppliers for raw materials and we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative supplier on short notice.    We rely on independent suppliers for key raw materials, consisting primarily of various chemicals and packaging materials. Raw materials used by us are generally available from more than one source. However, because some products require specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice. Asahikasei Aime Co. Ltd. (Asahi) is our sole supplier of the primary material used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, Biofinity and Avaira. If Asahi fails to supply sufficient material on a timely basis or at all for any reason, we may suffer a disruption in the supply of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products and may need to switch to an alternative supplier in accordance with our agreement with Asahi. A disruption in the supply of comfilcon A could disrupt production of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products thereby adversely impacting our ability to market and sell such products and our ability to compete in this important segment of the contact lens market.    If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer.    We consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks and licensing agreements, to be an integral component of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.    We may also seek to enforce our intellectual property rights on others through litigation. Our claims, even if meritorious, may be found invalid or inapplicable to a party we believe infringes or has misappropriated our intellectual property rights. In addition, litigation can:      •    be expensive and time consuming to prosecute or defend;      •    result in a finding that we do not have certain intellectual property rights or that such rights lack sufficient scope or strength;    22    Table of Contents   •    divert management’s attention and resources; or      •    require us to license our intellectual property.    We have applied for patent protection in the United States and other foreign jurisdictions relating to certain existing and proposed processes and products. We cannot assure that any of our patent applications will be approved. Patent applications in the United States and other foreign jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, which may last until patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. The patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Further, we cannot assure that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents.    We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements and assignment agreements, which generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. However, we cannot assure that these confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. Furthermore, enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. Certain patents protecting our Proclear line of products are due to expire in fiscal year 2011, which could allow competitors to market and sell products with similar attributes. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, we could lose competitive advantage and be materially adversely affected.    We rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products. To maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. Also, we might not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications, and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending applications from challenge by third parties. Enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks.    The laws of other foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products, and thereby have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.    Our intellectual property could be subject to claims of infringement.    Our competitors in both the United States and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied    23    Table of Contents  for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our existing and planned products. Claims that our products infringe the proprietary rights of others often are not asserted until after commencement of commercial sales incorporating our technology.    Significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industry. Third parties have made, and it is possible that they will make in the future, claims of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with their use of our technology. Any claims, even those without merit, could:      •    be expensive and time consuming to defend;      •    cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;      •    require us to redesign or reengineer our products, if feasible;      •    divert management’s attention and resources; or      •    require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a necessary product, component or process.    We cannot be certain of the outcome of any litigation. Any royalty or licensing agreement, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business.    A successful claim of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology, in particular if we are unable to manufacture or sell any of our planned products in any major market, could adversely affect our business.    We could experience losses from product liability claims, including such claims and other losses resulting from sales of counterfeit and other infringing products.    We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury. We also face the risk that defects in the design or manufacture of our products or sales of counterfeit or other infringing products might necessitate a product recall and other actions by manufacturers, distributors or retailers in order to safeguard the health of consumers and protect the integrity of the subject brand. In addition, consumers may halt or delay purchases of a product that is the subject of a claim or recall, or has been counterfeited. We handle some risk with third-party carrier policies that are subject to deductibles and limitations. There can be no assurance that we will not experience material losses due to product liability claims or recalls, or a decline in sales resulting from sales of counterfeit or other infringing products, in the future.    We face risks in connection with securities litigation.    The Company and several of its directors and officers have been named in a consolidated putative securities class action lawsuit and its directors and certain of its officers have been named in two consolidated derivative lawsuits, the nature and status of which are described in Item 3. Legal Proceedings. The consolidated putative securities class action seeks unspecified damages from the Company, and we are unable to estimate the range of potential losses that would be incurred if the plaintiffs in this action were to prevail, or to determine the total effect that it may have on our results of    24    Table of Contents  operations, financial position and cash flows. However, legal expenses beyond those presently contemplated to be incurred through trial (currently scheduled for March 2010) or a settlement or adverse judgment on the merits of the Action could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, securities litigation, irrespective of its merits, is costly to defend and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business.    The purported derivative lawsuits, which are at a very preliminary stage, do not seek damages from the Company. However, derivative litigation is costly, and these lawsuits may divert management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business.    We face risks related to environmental matters.    Our facilities are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling or disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes, remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances at our facilities and offsite disposal locations and occupational safety and health. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such laws and requirements. Future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, or the enforcement thereof, or the discovery of contamination at our facilities, may give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such laws and requirements are constantly changing, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. As a manufacturer of various products, we are exposed to some risk of claims with respect to environmental matters, and there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such claims.    We are conducting a voluntary clean-up at one of our sites in the state of New York. Although the workplan that we submitted to the state has been approved and we believe that the clean-up is proceeding in accordance with the workplan and our expectations, there can be no assurance that the clean-up will be completed within the timeframe and cost projected, that the expected results will be achieved, or that we will not identify alternate sources or higher levels of contamination. As such, there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection therewith.    Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations.    We have now and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness.    Our substantial indebtedness could:      •    increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;      •    require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes;      •    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;      •    place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;      •    limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and    25    Table of Contents   •    make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our credit facility under certain circumstances;    Our credit facility and senior notes contain financial and other restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. In addition, current conditions in the global debt markets would make it difficult and costly to refinance our credit facility and senior notes. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition.    We are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt.    We are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt. In order to maintain our desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, we currently use, and may continue to use, interest rate swap agreements and exchange fixed and variable-rate interest payment obligations over the life of the arrangements, without exchange of the underlying principal amounts. We may not be successful in structuring such swap agreements to effectively manage our risks, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition.    Exchange rate fluctuations and our foreign currency hedges could adversely affect our financial results.    As a result of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations tend to affect our results of operations and financial position. Our most significant currency exposures are the pound sterling, euro, Japanese yen, Swedish krona and Canadian dollar. We expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Although we enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our debt or receivables obligations, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. These hedges also serve to reduce any gain that we may have made based on favorable foreign currency fluctuations. In addition, to the extent we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Finally, because our consolidated financial results are reported in dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies the translation of those results into dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings and can make it more difficult for our shareholders to understand the relative strengths or weaknesses of the underlying business on a period-over-period comparative basis.    We may be required to recognize impairment charges on goodwill, which would reduce our net income, consolidated net worth and stockholders’ equity.    Pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we are required to perform impairment tests on our goodwill balance annually or at any time when events occur, which could impact the value of our business segments. Our determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of each of our reporting units’ fair market value with its carrying value. Significant and unanticipated changes could require a charge for impairment in a future period that could substantially affect our reported earnings in a period of such change. In addition, such charges would reduce our consolidated net income. If such charges were included in our covenant calculations, it could result in noncompliance with certain financial covenants under our credit facilities in the period of such charge.    26    Table of Contents We performed our annual impairment test in our fiscal third quarter 2009, and our analysis indicated that we had no impairment of goodwill. The fair value of our reporting units was determined using a combination of the income approach, specifically the discounted cash flow method, and the market valuation approach. Under the income approach, the fair value of the reporting unit is based on the present value of estimated future cash flows that the reporting unit is expected to generate over its remaining life. Under the market approach, the value of the reporting unit is based on an analysis that compares the value of the reporting unit to values of publicly traded companies in similar lines of business.    Actual future results related to assumed variables could differ from our estimates. Goodwill impairment analysis and measurement is a process that requires significant judgment. If our common stock price trades below book value per share, there are changes in market conditions or a future downturn in our business, or the annual goodwill impairment test indicates an impairment of our goodwill, the Company may have to recognize a non-cash impairment of its goodwill that could be material, and could adversely affect our results of operations in the period recognized and also adversely affect our total assets, stockholders’ equity and financial condition.    Increases in our effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of income tax returns could adversely affect our results.    Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where the Company has higher statutory rates or lower than anticipated in countries where it has lower statutory rates, by changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those laws. In addition, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has been auditing the Company’s income tax returns for the years 2005 – 2007, and we are also subject to the examination of our income tax returns by other tax authorities. The outcome of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.    We operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results.    We operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. We have overseas manufacturing, administrative and sales offices and generate substantial revenues and profits in foreign jurisdictions. Recently a number of countries, including the United States, have proposed changes to their tax laws, some of which affect taxation of earnings recognized in foreign jurisdictions. Such changes in tax laws or their interpretation, if adopted, could adversely affect our effective tax rates and our results. In addition, the U.S. Congress is currently considering a number of legislative proposals to reform the U.S. health care system. Certain of these proposals contemplate that a portion of the cost of such proposals would be paid by imposing new fees or taxes on medical device companies. We cannot at this time anticipate which, if any, of these proposals will become law, the magnitude of taxes that would be imposed on the Company under any enacted law, or whether any such taxes will materially affect our profitability.    We are in the process of upgrading certain of our management information systems, and we cannot assure that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruption of our business.    We have implemented a management information system at our major locations and are in the process of implementing related systems for substantially all of our businesses worldwide. Many other companies have had severe problems with computer system implementations of this nature and scope.    27    Table of Contents  We are using a controlled project plan, and we believe we have assigned adequate staffing and other resources to the projects to ensure successful implementation. However, we cannot assure that the design will meet our current and future business needs or that it will operate as designed. We are heavily dependent on such computer systems, and any failure or delay in the system implementation would cause a substantial interruption to our business, additional expense and loss of sales, customers and profits.    If we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business could suffer.    If we fail to recruit and retain the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. The success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing, engineering and scientific personnel. Competition for these persons in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel.    Provisions of our governing documents and Delaware law, and our rights plan, may have anti-takeover effects.    Certain provisions of our Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws may inhibit changes in control of the Company not approved by our board of directors. These provisions include: (i) advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations and (ii) the authority of our board to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock with such terms as our board may determine. We will also be afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could have similar effects. Our board of directors extended our preferred stock purchase rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill,” pursuant to an amended rights agreement dated as of October 29, 2007. The rights agreement is intended to prevent abusive hostile takeover attempts by requiring a potential acquiror to negotiate the terms of an acquisition with our board of directors. However, it could have the effect of deterring or preventing an acquisition of our Company, even if a majority of our stockholders would be in favor of such acquisition, and could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a person or group to gain control of the Company or to change existing management.    Risks Relating to Government Regulation of Manufacture and Sale of Our Products    Our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or to receive regulatory clearance or approval for our products or operations could adversely affect our business.    Our products and operations are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. In the United States, the FDA regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device’s design, development, testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, reporting, marketing, promotion and distribution, as well as the export of medical devices manufactured in the United States to foreign markets. Our failure to comply with FDA regulations could lead to the imposition of administrative or judicial sanctions, including injunctions, suspensions or the loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution or product seizures. In the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible.    28    Table of Contents Our medical devices require clearance or approval by the FDA before they can be commercially distributed in the United States and may require similar approvals by foreign regulatory agencies before distribution in foreign jurisdictions. Medical devices may only be marketed for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA, can be costly and time consuming. There can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements will not occur, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. In addition, the FDA may change its policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or clearance of our products or could impact our ability to market our currently approved or cleared products.    Modifications and enhancements to a medical device also require a new FDA clearance or approval if they could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review any manufacturer’s decision. We have made modifications and enhancements to our medical devices that we do not believe require a new clearance or application, but we cannot confirm that the FDA will agree with our decisions. If the FDA requires us to seek clearance or approval for modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. We also cannot assure that we will be successful in obtaining clearances or approvals for our modifications, if required.    Even if regulatory approval or clearance of a medical device is granted, the FDA may impose limitations or restrictions on the uses and indications for which the device may be labeled and promoted, and failure to comply with FDA regulations prohibiting a manufacturer from promoting a device for an unapproved, or “off-label” use could result in enforcement action by the FDA, including, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees, and civil or criminal penalties.    Development and marketing of our products are subject to strict governmental regulation by foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to receive, or delay in receiving, foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business.    In many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. Many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in such countries are similar to those of the FDA.    In the European Economic Area, a medical device can only be placed on the market if it is in conformity with the essential requirements set out in the European Directives and implementing regulations that govern medical devices. These Directives prescribe quality programs and standards which must be maintained in order to achieve required ISO certification and to approve the use of CE marking. In order to maintain ISO certification and CE marking quality benchmarks, firms’ quality systems and procedures are subjected to rigorous periodic inspections and reassessment audits.    In many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. To date, we have    29    Table of Contents  not experienced difficulty in complying with these regulations. However, our failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.    Our products are subject to reporting requirements and recalls, even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, which could harm our reputation, business and financial results.    After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including the FDA’s cGMP and QSR regulations, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or “off-label” uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to FDA or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. The FDA and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. A government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of manufacturing or labeling errors or design defects. Any voluntary or government mandated recall may divert management attention and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers. Any recall involving one of our products could also harm the reputation of the product and the Company and would be particularly harmful to our business and financial results.    Changes in legislation and government regulation of the healthcare industry as well as third-party payors’ efforts to control the costs of healthcare could materially adversely affect our business.    In recent years, an increasing number of healthcare reform proposals have been formulated by the legislative and executive branches of the federal and state governments. The current administration has made health care reform a priority, and there have been a significant number of federal legislative initiatives and reform measures this past year. Pending and future legislative proposals could effect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. Among the proposals under consideration are annual, non-deductible fees on manufacturers or importers of certain prescription drugs, biologics or medical devices offered for sale in the United States, price controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms to expand the availability of health insurance, requirements that companies that sell products to hospitals and other healthcare providers must publicly disclose their prices, and the creation of a government health insurance plan or plan designed to ensure coverage for all citizens. Federal legislation also has been introduced to avoid a 21.2 percent reduction in 2010 payments to physicians for services provided to Medicare patients by revising the applicable statutory formula used to develop the Medicare payment rates. In past years, annual federal legislation avoided reductions stemming from the formula, and current pending legislation would revise the formula to prevent the need for annual legislative adjustments in this area.    This year, new health care reform measures that were passed include appropriation of federal funds to conduct, support or synthesize research that compares and evaluates the risk and benefits, clinical outcomes, effectiveness and appropriateness of products, among other things. The comparative effectiveness research is intended to improve the quality of health care, but how the research will impact coverage, reimbursement or other policies developed by health insurance companies remains unclear. There also continues to be efforts at the federal level to introduce expanded fraud and abuse and anti-referral legislation and to further reduce certain Medicare and Medicaid expenditures by    30    Table of Contents  revising coverage and reimbursement policies. A broad range of both similar and more comprehensive healthcare reform initiatives is likely to be considered at the state level. Although it is uncertain which, if any, of these or other proposals will be adopted, the potential for adoption of these proposals affects or may affect our ability to market our products.    Any adoption of healthcare reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. In addition, we may experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to additional legislative proposals or healthcare reform initiatives, including those initiatives affecting coverage and reimbursement for our products. Future legislation and regulations may adversely affect the growth of the market for our products or demand for our products. We cannot predict the effect such reforms or the prospect of their enactment may have on our business.    In addition, third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the United States or abroad, increasingly attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. These cost-control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, requiring pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to certain medical procedures, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. Although cost controls or other requirements imposed by third-party payors have not historically had a significant effect on contact lens prices or distribution practices, this could change in the future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.    The costs of complying with the requirements of federal laws pertaining to the privacy and security of health information and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.    Other federal legislation affects the manner in which we use and disclose health information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, mandates, among other things, the adoption of standards for the electronic exchange of health information that may require significant and costly changes to current practices. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has released several rules mandating the use of specified standards with respect to certain healthcare transactions and health information. The electronic transactions rule requires the use of uniform standards for common healthcare transactions, including healthcare claims information, plan eligibility, referral certification and authorization, claims status, plan enrollment and disenrollment, payment and remittance advice, plan premium payments and coordination of benefits. The privacy rule imposes standards governing the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information. The security rule released by HHS establishes minimum standards for the security of electronic health information, and requires the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards.    Additionally, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act of 2009 was signed into law as part of the stimulus package in February 2009. Previously, HIPAA directly regulated only certain covered entities, such as health care providers and health plans. Under HITECH, certain of HIPAA’s privacy and security standards are now also directly applicable to covered entities’ business associates. As a result, business associates are now subject to civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply with applicable privacy and security rule requirements. Moreover, HITECH creates a new requirement to report any breach of unsecured, individually identifiable health information and imposes penalties on entities that fail to do so.    While we do not believe that we are a covered entity under HIPAA, many of our customers are covered entities subject to HIPAA. Such customers may require us to enter into business associate    31    Table of Contents  agreements, which obligate us to safeguard certain health information we obtain in the course of servicing their customers, restrict the manner in which we use and disclose such information and impose liability on us for failure to meet our contractual obligations. Pursuant to the HITECH Act, as business associates, we are now additionally subject to direct governmental enforcement for failure to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. The costs of complying with these contractual obligations, new legal and regulatory requirements, and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.    Federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.    We may be subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, physician self-referral laws and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs and TRICARE. Similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could indirectly have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, because of the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Indeed, recent changes in state laws and model codes of ethics have already required us to alter certain of our compliance efforts. For example, in April of 2009, Massachusetts issued regulations governing the conduct of pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers with respect to healthcare practitioners. This regulation became effective on July 1, 2009 and sets forth what medical device manufacturers may and may not permissibly do with respect to providing meals, sponsoring continuing medical education and otherwise providing payments or items of economic benefit to healthcare practitioners located within the state. Additionally, the regulation requires medical device manufacturers to have in place robust fraud and abuse compliance programs. Other states (e.g., California and Nevada) have adopted similar laws. The Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed), a trade association representing the interests of medical device manufacturers, has also recently released a revised code of ethics outlining permissible interactions with health care professionals. This code became effective July 1, 2009. These laws, regulations and guidance documents act to limit our marketing practices, require the dedication of resources to ensure compliance, and expose us to additional liabilities.    Any violations of these laws or regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in these laws, regulations, or administrative or judicial interpretations, may require us to further change our business practices or subject our existing business practices to legal challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.    Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.