Item 1A: Risk Factors  The risk factors in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 (the “2009 Form 10-K”) included risks that were specific to CareFusion. The Company completed the spin-off of CareFusion on August 31, 2009 and as a result the risk factors in the 2009 Form 10-K were superseded by the risk factors set forth in “Part II, Item 1A—Risk Factors” of the Company’s September 30, 2009 Form 10-Q. The information presented below describes risks arising from the recently enacted federal healthcare reform act. The risks described in this Form 10-Q are not the only risks that the Company faces. The information presented below, risks described elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and the risks set forth in the September 30, 2009 Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with the 2009 Form 10-K and the Company’s filings with the SEC since June 30, 2009. These risks could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, cash flows and/or future business prospects.  The Company’s results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, cash flows and/or future business prospects could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not known to the Company at the time of the filing of this Form 10-Q or that the Company currently considers to be immaterial.    38    Table of Contents The Company may be adversely impacted by the recently enacted healthcare reform legislation.  In March 2010, Congress approved, and the President signed into law, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively the “Healthcare Reform Acts”). Among other things, the Healthcare Reform Acts seek to expand health insurance coverage to approximately 32 million uninsured Americans. Many of the significant changes in the Healthcare Reform Acts do not take effect until 2014, including a requirement that most Americans carry health insurance. The Healthcare Reform Acts contain many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and to reduce costs of Medicare and Medicaid. Beginning in 2013, each medical device manufacturer will have to pay a tax in an amount equal to 2.3% of the price for which the manufacturer sells its medical devices. The Company manufactures and sells devices that will be subject to this tax. Additionally, the Healthcare Reform Acts changed the federal upper payment limit for Medicaid reimbursement from 250% of the lowest average manufacturer’s price (“AMP”) for generic pharmaceuticals to no less than 175% of the average weighted AMP, which is to be published monthly. The AMP provision is expected to become effective in October 2010. The effect of these and other provisions of the Healthcare Reform Acts on the Company is uncertain and could be adverse.      Item 2: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds