Item 1A. Risk Factors  In addition to the risk factors set forth in Item 1A of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, investors should consider the following risk factor before deciding to invest in any securities issued by the Company. U.S. healthcare reform legislation may result in significant change, and our business could be adversely impacted if we fail to adapt.  Government oversight of and attention to the healthcare industry in the United States is significant and increasing. In March 2010, U.S. federal legislation was enacted to reform healthcare. The legislation provides for reductions in the Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule of 1.75% for five years beginning in 2011 and also includes a productivity adjustment which reduces the CPI market basket update beginning in 2011. In 2009, approximately 12% of our consolidated revenues were reimbursed by Medicare under the clinical laboratory fee schedule. The legislation imposes an excise tax on the seller for the sale of certain medical devices in the United States, including those purchased and used by laboratories, beginning in 2013. The legislation establishes the Independent Payment Advisory Board, which will be responsible, beginning in 2014, annually to submit proposals aimed at reducing Medicare cost growth while preserving quality. These proposals automatically will be implemented unless Congress enacts alternative proposals that achieve the same savings targets. Further, the legislation calls for a Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation that will examine alternative payment methodologies and conduct demonstration programs. The legislation provides for extensive health insurance reforms, including the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and other limitations on coverage, fixed percentages on medical loss ratios, expansion in Medicaid and other programs, employer mandates, individual mandates, creation of state and regional health insurance exchanges, and tax subsidies for individuals to help cover the cost of individual insurance coverage. The legislation also permits the establishment of accountable care organizations, a new healthcare delivery model. While the ultimate impact of the legislation on the healthcare industry is unknown, it is likely to be extensive and may result in significant change. Our failure to adapt to these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. 35  Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds