Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that are currently considered immaterial may also have a negative impact on our business and operations. Natural gas price volatility may have an adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and liquidity. Our revenue, profitability and liquidity depend on the price for natural gas. The markets for natural gas are volatile and fluctuations in prices will affect our financial results. Natural gas prices are affected by a number of factors beyond our control, which include: weather conditions; the supply of and demand for natural gas; national and worldwide economic and political conditions; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the proximity to, and availability of capacity on, transportation facilities; and government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas transportation, royalties and price controls. Increases in natural gas prices may be accompanied by or result in increased well drilling costs, increased deferral of purchased gas costs for our distribution operations, increased production taxes, increased lease operating expenses, increased exposure to credit losses resulting from potential increases in uncollectible accounts receivable from our distribution customers, increased volatility in seasonal gas price spreads for our storage assets, and increased customer conservation or conversion to alternative fuels. Significant price increases, such as occurred in the fall and winter of 2005, subject us to margin calls on our commodity price derivative contracts (hedging arrangements, including futures contracts, swap agreements and exchange traded instruments) which require us to post significant amounts of cash collateral with our hedge counterparties. The cash collateral, which is interest-bearing, provided to our hedge counterparties is returned to us in whole or in part upon a reduction in forward market prices, depending on the amount of such reduction, or in whole upon settlement of the related hedged transaction. In such cases we are, however, exposed to the risk of non-performance by our hedge counterparties of their obligations under the derivative contracts. In addition, to the extent we have hedged our current production at prices below the current market price, we are unable to benefit fully from the increase in the price of natural gas. Lower natural gas prices, increases in our estimates of development costs or changes to our production assumptions may result in our having to make downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, change our production plans, and incur non-cash charges to earnings. Our failure to assess production opportunities based on market conditions could negatively impact our long-term growth prospects for our production business. Our goal of sustaining long-term growth for our production business is contingent upon our ability to identify production opportunities based on market conditions. Successfully identifying production opportunities involves a high degree of business experience, knowledge and careful evaluation of potential opportunities, along with subjective judgments and assumptions which may prove to be incorrect. Our failure to develop and maintain the necessary infrastructure to successfully deliver gas to market may adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and results of operations. Our gas delivery depends on the availability of adequate transportation infrastructure. We have announced a significant investment in transportation infrastructure (the Big Sandy Pipeline) which is intended to address a lack of capacity on and access to existing transportation pipelines as well as curtailments on such pipelines. We are also planning an upgrade to the Company-operated hydrocarbon processing plant in Langley, Kentucky for completion in early 2008. Our infrastructure development program can involve significant risks, including those related to timing and cost overruns and these risks can be affected by the availability of capital, materials, and a qualified work force, as well as weather conditions, gas price volatility, government approvals, title problems, geology and other factors. In addition, we may not be able to obtain sufficient third party transportation contracts to recover the costs of our infrastructure development program. We also deliver to and are served by third party gas gathering, transportation, 12    processing and storage facilities which are limited in number and geographically concentrated. An extended interruption of access to or service from these facilities could result in material adverse consequences to us. The amount and timing of actual future gas production is difficult to predict and may vary significantly from our estimates which may reduce our earnings. Our future success depends on our ability to develop additional gas reserves that are economically recoverable and to maximize existing well production, and our failure to do so may reduce our earnings. We have expanded our drilling program in recent years, and we have subsequently announced further expansion. Our drilling of development wells can involve significant risks, including those related to timing and cost overruns and these risks can be affected by the availability of capital, leases, rigs and a qualified work force, as well as weather conditions, gas price volatility, government approvals, title problems, geology and other factors. Drilling for natural gas can be unprofitable, not only from dry wells, but from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit due to inadequate well operation and compressor availability. Without continued successful development or acquisition activities, our reserves and revenues will decline as a result of our current reserves being depleted by production. We may engage in acquisition and disposition strategies that involve a number of inherent risks, any of which may cause us not to realize anticipated benefits and may adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and results of operations. On March 1, 2006, we signed a purchase agreement to acquire the capital stock of The Peoples Natural Gas Company and Hope Gas, Inc. from Consolidated Natural Gas Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dominion Resources, Inc. In addition, we intend to continue to strategically position our business in order to improve our ability to compete. Acquisitions, joint ventures and other business combinations involve various inherent risks, such as assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition or other transaction candidates; the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; the constraints imposed by regulators in approving such transactions; the potential for unions of an acquired business to strike; our ability to achieve identified financial and operating synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction; demands on management related to the increase in size after an acquisition or other transaction; and unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquisition or other transaction. We may be unable to realize, or do so within any particular time frame, the cost reductions, cash flow increases or other synergies expected to result from such transactions. In addition, various factors including prevailing market conditions and the incursion of related contingent liabilities could negatively impact the benefits we receive from transactions. If we fail to achieve our strategic or financial goals in any acquisition or disposition transaction, it could have a significant adverse affect on our earnings, cash flows and results of operations. Furthermore, if we borrow money to finance an acquisition, which we plan to do in connection with the acquisition of The Peoples Natural Gas Company and Hope Gas, Inc., our failure to achieve our stated goals could impact our ability to repay such borrowings or other borrowings and could weaken our financial condition. Moreover, additional debt could increase our vulnerability to the effects of interest rate movements. We are subject to risks associated with the operation of our pipelines and facilities. Our business operations are subject to all of the inherent hazards and risks normally incidental to the production, transportation, storage and distribution of natural gas. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage. As a result, we are sometimes a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. There can be no assurance that insurance policies we maintain to limit our liability of such losses will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal and property damage or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices. 13    Our need to comply with comprehensive, complex and sometimes unpredictable government regulations may increase our costs and limit our revenue growth, which may result in reduced earnings. Significant portions of our gathering, transportation, storage and distribution businesses are subject to state and federal regulation including regulation of the rates which we may assess our customers. The agencies that regulate our rates may prohibit us from realizing a level of return which we believe is appropriate. These restrictions may take the form of imputed revenue credits, cost disallowances (including purchased gas cost recoveries) and/or expense deferrals. Additionally, we may be required to provide additional assistance to low income residential customers to help pay their bills. We are subject to laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local, as well as foreign authorities relating to protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those legal requirements that govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, groundwater quality and availability, plant and wildlife protection, restoration of drilling properties after drilling is completed, pipeline safety and work practices related to employee health and safety. Complying with these requirements could have a significant effect on our costs of operations and competitive position. If we fail to comply with these requirements, even if caused by factors beyond our control, such failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against us. The rates of federal, state and local taxes applicable to the industries in which we operate, including production taxes paid by Equitable Supply, which often fluctuate, could be increased by the respective taxing authorities. In addition, the tax laws, rules and regulations that affect our business could change. Any such increase or change could adversely impact our cash flows and profitability. See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” for further discussion regarding the Company’s exposure to market risks, including the risks associated with our use of derivative contracts to hedge commodity prices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments