Item 1A. Risk Factors   Risks Relating to Our Business   In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that are currently considered immaterial may also have a negative impact on our business and operations. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline.   Natural gas price volatility may have an adverse effect upon our revenue, profitability, future rate of growth and liquidity.   Our revenue, profitability, future rate of growth and liquidity depend upon the price for natural gas. The markets for natural gas are volatile and fluctuations in prices will affect our financial results. Natural gas prices are affected by a number of factors beyond our control, which include: weather conditions; the supply of and demand for natural gas; national and worldwide economic and political conditions; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the proximity to, and availability of capacity on, transportation facilities; and government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas transportation and price controls.   Lower natural gas prices may result in decreases in the revenue, margin and cash flow for each of our businesses, a reduction in the construction of new transportation capacity and downward adjustments to the value of our estimated proved reserves which may cause us to incur non-cash charges to earnings. Moreover, if we fail to control our operating costs during periods of lower natural gas prices, we could further reduce our margin. A reduction in margin or cash flow will reduce our funds available for capital expenditures and, correspondingly, our opportunities for growth. We are also exposed to the risk of non-performance by our hedge counterparties in the event that changes, positive or negative, in natural gas prices result in derivative contracts with a positive fair value.   Increases in natural gas prices may be accompanied by or result in increased well drilling costs, increased deferral of purchased gas costs for our distribution operations, increased production taxes, increased lease operating expenses, increased exposure to credit losses resulting from potential increases in uncollectible accounts receivable from our distribution customers, increased volatility in seasonal gas price spreads for our storage assets and increased customer conservation or conversion to alternative fuels. Significant price increases subject us to margin calls on our commodity price derivative contracts (hedging arrangements, including futures contracts, swap, collar and option agreements and exchange traded instruments) which would potentially require us to post significant amounts of cash collateral with our hedge counterparties. The cash collateral, which is interest-bearing, provided to our hedge counterparties is returned to us in whole or in part upon a reduction in forward market prices, depending on the amount of such reduction, or in whole upon settlement of the related hedged transaction. In addition, to the extent we have hedged our current production at prices below the current market price, we are unable to benefit fully from an increase in the price of natural gas.   We are subject to risks associated with the operation of our wells, pipelines and facilities.   Our business operations are subject to all of the inherent hazards and risks normally incidental to the production, transportation, storage and distribution of natural gas and natural gas liquids. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage. As a result, we are sometimes a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. There can be no assurance that the insurance policies we maintain to limit our liability for such losses will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices or to cover all risks.   16      Table of Contents   Negative public perception regarding us and/or our industry could have an adverse effect on our operations.   Negative public perception regarding us and/or our industry resulting from, among other things, the recent oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, the explosion of a natural gas transmission line in California and concerns raised by advocacy groups about hydraulic fracturing, may lead to new state and federal safety and environmental laws, regulations, guidelines and enforcement interpretations, which may cause operational delays or restrictions, increased operating costs, additional regulatory burdens and increased risk of litigation. Moreover, governmental authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance and the public may engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Negative public perception could cause the permits we need to conduct our operations to be withheld, delayed, or burdened by requirements that restrict our ability to profitably conduct our business.   Strategic determinations, including the allocation of capital and other resources to strategic opportunities are challenging, and our failure to appropriately allocate capital and resources among our strategic opportunities may adversely affect our financial condition and reduce our growth rate.   Our future growth prospects are dependent upon our ability to identify optimal strategies for our business. In developing our 2011 business plan, we considered allocating capital and other resources to various aspects of our businesses including well-development (primarily drilling), reserve acquisitions, exploratory activity, midstream infrastructure, distribution infrastructure, corporate items and other alternatives. We also considered our likely sources of capital. Notwithstanding the determinations made in the development of our 2011 plan, business opportunities not previously identified periodically come to our attention, including possible acquisitions and dispositions. If we fail to identify optimal business strategies, or fail to optimize our capital investment and capital raising opportunities and the use of our other resources in furtherance of our business strategies, our financial condition and growth rate may be adversely affected.   Our failure to assess production opportunities based on market conditions could negatively impact our long-term growth prospects for our production business.   Our goal of sustaining long-term growth for our production business is contingent upon our ability to identify production opportunities based on market conditions. Our decision to drill a prospect is subject to a number of factors which may alter our drilling schedule or our plans to drill at all. We may have difficulty drilling all of the wells before the lease term expires which could result in the loss of certain leasehold rights or we could drill wells in locations where we do not have the necessary infrastructure to deliver the gas to market. Successfully identifying production opportunities involves a high degree of business experience, knowledge and careful evaluation of potential opportunities, along with subjective judgments and assumptions which may prove to be incorrect. In addition, our exploration projects increase the risks inherent in our natural gas activities. Specifically, seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of natural gas, which could adversely affect the results of our operations. Because we have a limited operating history in certain areas, our future operating results may be difficult to forecast, and our failure to sustain high growth rates in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.   We have substantial capital requirements, and we may not be able to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms, if at all.   We rely upon access to both short-term bank and money markets and longer-term capital markets as sources of liquidity for any capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from operations or other sources. Future challenges in the global financial system, including the capital markets, may adversely affect our business and our financial condition. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we desire, or need, to raise capital, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Adverse economic and market conditions could adversely affect the collectability of our trade receivables and cause our commodity hedging counterparties to be unable to perform their obligations or to seek bankruptcy protection. Future challenges in the economy could also lead to reduced demand for natural gas which could have a negative impact on our revenues and our credit ratings.   17      Table of Contents   Any downgrade of our credit ratings may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt or equity securities or other borrowing arrangements, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and liquidity. We cannot be sure that our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that our rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. An increase in the level of our indebtedness in the future may result in a downgrade in the ratings that are assigned to our debt. Any downgrade in our ratings could result in an increase in our borrowing costs, which would diminish financial results.   The amount and timing of actual future gas production is difficult to predict and may vary significantly from our estimates which may reduce our earnings.   Our future success depends upon our ability to develop additional gas reserves that are economically recoverable and to optimize existing well production, and our failure to do so may reduce our earnings. Our drilling and subsequent maintenance of wells can involve significant risks, including those related to timing, cost overruns and operational efficiency, and these risks can be affected by the availability of capital, leases, rigs and a qualified work force, as well as weather conditions, gas price volatility, government approvals, title problems, geology and other factors. Drilling for natural gas can be unprofitable, not only from dry wells, but from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit. Additionally, a failure to effectively and efficiently operate existing wells may cause production volumes to fall short of our projections. Without continued successful development or acquisition activities, together with effective operation of existing wells, our reserves and revenues will decline as a result of our current reserves being depleted by production.   Our need to comply with comprehensive, complex and sometimes unpredictable government regulations may increase our costs and limit our revenue growth, which may result in reduced earnings.   Our operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. Laws, regulations and other legal requirements have increased the cost to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon wells, gathering systems, pipelines and distribution systems. Environmental, health and safety legal requirements govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, groundwater quality and availability, plant and wildlife protection, restoration of drilling properties after drilling is completed, pipeline safety and work practices related to employee health and safety. Compliance with the laws, regulations and other legal requirements applicable to our businesses may increase our cost of doing business. These requirements could also subject us to claims for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. Our failure to comply with the laws, regulations and other legal requirements applicable to our businesses, even if as a result of factors beyond our control, could result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties and damages.   The rates charged to customers by our gathering, transportation, storage and distribution businesses are, in many cases, subject to state or federal regulation. The agencies that regulate our rates may prohibit us from realizing a level of return which we believe is appropriate. These restrictions may take the form of imputed revenue credits, cost disallowances (including purchased gas cost recoveries) and/or expense deferrals. Additionally, we may be required to provide additional assistance to low income residential customers to help pay their bills without the ability to recover some or all of the additional assistance in rates.   Laws, regulations and other legal requirements are constantly changing and implementation of compliant processes in response to such changes could be costly and time consuming. For instance, effective January 1, 2011, the EPA began regulating greenhouse gas emission by subjecting new facilities and major modifications to existing facilities that emit large emissions of greenhouse gas emissions to the permitting requirements of the Federal Clean Air Act.   In addition, the U.S. Congress and various states have been evaluating climate-related legislation and other regulatory initiatives that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases, including methane (a primary component of natural gas) and carbon dioxide (a byproduct of burning natural gas). Such restrictions may result in additional compliance obligations with respect to, or taxes on and the release, capture and use of greenhouse gases that could have an adverse effect on our operations.   18      Table of Contents   In addition, hydraulic fracturing is utilized to complete most of our natural gas wells. Certain environmental and other groups have suggested that additional laws and regulations may be needed to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and legislation has been proposed by some members of Congress to provide for such regulation. We cannot predict whether any such federal or state legislation or regulation will be enacted and if enacted how they may impact our operations, but enactment of additional laws or regulations could increase our operating costs.   Recent federal budget proposals have included provisions which could potentially increase and accelerate the payment of federal income taxes of independent producers of natural gas and oil. Proposals that would significantly affect us would repeal the expensing of intangible drilling costs, repeal the percentage depletion allowance and increase the amortization period of geological and geophysical expenses. These changes, if enacted, will make it more costly for us to explore for and develop our natural gas resources.   The rates of federal, state and local taxes applicable to the industries in which we operate, including production taxes paid by EQT Production, which often fluctuate, could be increased by the various taxing authorities. In addition, the tax laws, rules and regulations that affect our business, such as the imposition of a new severance tax (a tax on the extraction of natural resources) in states in which we produce gas, could change. Any such increase or change could adversely impact our cash flows and profitability.   In July 2010, federal legislation was enacted to implement various financial and governance reforms. Although many of the legislative provisions were focused on the financial and banking industries, portions of the legislation will impact our businesses. The extent of the impact is uncertain at this time, due to the requirement that various implementing regulations must be adopted by the SEC and the United States Commodity Futures Trading Commission.   Our failure to develop or obtain, and maintain, the necessary infrastructure to successfully deliver gas to market may adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and results of operations.   Our delivery of gas depends upon the availability of adequate transportation infrastructure. The Company’s investment in midstream infrastructure is intended to address a lack of capacity on, and access to, existing gathering and transportation pipelines as well as processing adjacent to and curtailments on such pipelines. The lack of midstream infrastructure could become more important in the geographic area in which the Marcellus Shale is being developed. Our infrastructure development and maintenance programs can involve significant risks, including those related to timing, cost overruns and operational efficiency, and these risks can be affected by the availability of capital, materials and qualified contractors and work force, as well as weather conditions, gas price volatility, government approvals, title problems, geology, compliance by third parties with their contractual obligations to us and other factors. We also deliver to and are served by third-party gas gathering, transportation, processing and storage facilities which are limited in number and geographically concentrated. An extended interruption of access to or service from these facilities could result in adverse consequences to us. In addition, some of our third-party contracts may involve significant financial commitments on our part and may make us dependent upon others to get our produced natural gas to market.   The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our strategic, operational and financial plans.   Our operations are dependent upon key management and technical personnel, and one or more of these individuals could leave our employment. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on us. In addition, the success of our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract, develop and retain experienced personnel. There is competition within our industry for experienced personnel and certain other professionals. If we cannot attract, develop and retain our technical and professional personnel or attract additional experienced technical and professional personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed.   See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” for further discussion regarding the Company’s exposure to market risks, including the risks associated with our use of derivative contracts to hedge commodity prices.     19      Table of Contents   Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments