Item 1A.  Risk Factors  The following are additional risk factors for Regions, to be read in conjunction with Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in Regions Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.  1. There can be no assurance that the recently enacted Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) will help stabilize the U.S. financial system.  On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”). The legislation was the result of a proposal by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the U.S. Congress on September 20, 2008 in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. The U.S. Treasury and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock.    59    Table of Contents 2. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented.  The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. In recent weeks, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  3. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.  Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations or earnings.  4. Current market developments may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations.  Dramatic declines in the housing market during the prior year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including other financial institutions. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.      Item 2.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds