Item 1A.  Risk Factors  The following are additional risk factors for Regions, to be read in conjunction with Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in Regions Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.  The results of the stress test recently conducted by Regions’ banking regulators pursuant to the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Assistance Program requires Regions to raise additional capital that will likely be highly dilutive to our common shares.  On February 25, 2009, the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the “U.S. Treasury”) announced the preliminary details of the Capital Assistance Program (the “CAP”) component of its Financial Stability Plan. The purpose of the CAP is to restore confidence throughout the financial system that the nation’s largest banking institutions have a sufficient capital cushion against larger than expected future losses, should they occur due to a more severe economic environment, and to support lending to creditworthy borrowers.  There are two components of CAP: (1) a supervisory exercise that involves a forward-looking capital assessment (the “Stress Test”) to evaluate the capital needs of the major U.S. banking institutions, including Regions, under a more challenging economic environment, and (2) should that assessment indicate that an additional capital buffer is warranted, access for qualifying financial institutions to government capital to provide this buffer if sufficient private sources of capital cannot be found. For eligible U.S. banking organizations with assets in excess of $100 billion, participation in the Stress Test was mandatory, whether or not they access the government capital provided under the CAP.  As announced on May 7, 2009, under the Stress Test, the banking regulators determined that Regions needs to raise $2.5 billion in additional Tier 1 common equity or contingent common equity (i.e., mandatorily convertible preferred stock) of which $400 million must be new Tier 1 equity. Regions will submit a capital plan to its regulators and has agreed to raise the required capital. Regions will have until November 9, 2009 to either raise this additional capital through liability management strategies, public or private capital transactions or asset dispositions or convert a portion of its CPP preferred to convertible preferred under the CAP. All of the additional capital must be either common equity or mandatorily convertible preferred equity and therefore will likely be highly dilutive to our common shares and may reduce the market price of our common shares.  Regions may not be able to raise private capital in the amount required or at all.  We cannot assure you that private capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. The public market for most forms of Tier 1 securities has been effectively closed to financial institutions for the last nine months and we can offer no assurance that conditions in these markets will improve in the near future. Events outside our control, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of Regions Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt ratings, may further adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. In addition, current market conditions are likely to make it difficult to find purchasers who are willing to purchase assets at acceptable prices and on acceptable terms. If we are unable to raise all or part of the amount of capital we need to raise through public or private capital transactions, liability management, asset dispositions or other sources, we will be required to obtain such capital from the U.S. Treasury by converting our CPP preferred shares to convertible preferred shares under the CAP or otherwise obtaining capital under the CAP.  Converting our CPP preferred shares to convertible preferred shares under the CAP or otherwise obtaining capital under the CAP will likely be highly dilutive to our common shareholders and will impose additional restrictions on our operations.  Should Regions be unable to raise the additional capital from public or private capital transactions or other sources, it would likely have to convert a portion of its CPP preferred shares to convertible preferred shares under the CAP or otherwise obtain capital under the CAP.    57    Table of Contents The governmental capital authorized under the CAP consists of mandatorily convertible preferred stock and warrants to acquire common stock. The convertible preferred stock would be senior to our common stock and convertible into common stock at Regions’ option. The conversion price for the convertible preferred would be $4.13 per share, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments. The convertible preferred stock would accrue cumulative dividends at a rate of 9% per annum and would mandatorily convert to common stock if not redeemed after seven years. The warrants would be issued to purchase a number of our common shares equal to 20% of the convertible preferred amount on the date of the investment. The warrants would be for a 10-year term and would be immediately exercisable in whole or in part. To view the standard CAP term sheet, including a summary of the terms of the securities that the U.S. Treasury receives in connection with any CAP issuance, see www.financialstability.gov.  Issuance of securities under the CAP will likely be highly dilutive to our common shareholders and may decrease the market price of our common stock. The issuance of securities under the CAP will impose conditions and limitations related to executive compensation and corporate governance, as well as new public reporting obligations. Many of our competitors will not be subject to these restrictions and therefore may gain a competitive advantage over Regions. These restrictions may have a material and adverse effect on our operations.  Converting our CPP preferred to convertible preferred or otherwise obtaining capital under the CAP may result in the U.S. government acquiring a significant interest in Regions which may have an adverse effect on our operations and the market price of our common stock. In addition, issuing a significant amount of common stock or equity convertible into common stock to a private investor may have the same effect.  Converting a large amount of our CPP preferred to convertible preferred or otherwise obtaining capital under the CAP could result in the U.S. Treasury becoming a significant shareholder of Regions. Even if the U.S. Treasury does not control a majority of Regions’ voting power, it still may be able to exert significant influence on substantially all matters submitted to shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of certain transactions. The U.S. Treasury may also, subject to applicable securities laws and the terms of the securities, transfer all, or a portion of, its shares to another person or entity and, in the event of such a transfer, that person or entity could become a significant shareholder of Regions. In addition, any issuance of a large amount of common equity or equity convertible into common to a private investor may raise similar risks.  Having a significant shareholder may make some future transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of such shareholder. The interests of the significant shareholder may not coincide with our interests or the interests of other shareholders. There can be no assurance that any significant shareholder will exercise its influence in Regions’ best interests as opposed to its best interests as a significant shareholder. A significant shareholder may make it difficult to approve certain transactions even if they are supported by the other shareholders, which may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.  Issuing a significant amount of convertible preferred equity to the U.S. Treasury or issuing a significant amount of common equity to a private investor may require notification or other filings under regulatory standards and may trigger rights under certain of Regions’ benefits plans.  Regions’ obtaining a significant amount of additional capital from the U.S. Treasury or any individual private investor could trigger notice, approval and/or other filings under applicable regulatory standards. The failure to obtain any required regulatory consents or approvals may have a material adverse effect on Regions’ financial condition, results of operations or cash flows,  In addition, the issuance to any person, including for these purposes the U.S. Treasury, of securities representing greater than 20% of the voting power of Regions, may be considered a triggering event under certain of its employee benefit plans. For any single-trigger plan, a triggering event would result in all options and other awards vesting and all restricted stock units and restricted stock becoming unrestricted and payable. Vesting of outstanding options and the payment of amounts owed under restricted stock units and restricted stock may have a material and adverse effect on Regions’ financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.    58    Table of Contents Potential misinterpretation of the results of the Stress Test may adversely affect Regions’ ability to attract and retain its customers and to compete for new business opportunities.  Although our regulators have made clear that the Stress Test does not assess the current condition of Regions and its subsidiaries and even though Regions remains strong, stable and well capitalized, we cannot predict our customers’ potential misinterpretation of, and adverse reaction to, the results of the Stress Test. Any potential misinterpretations and adverse reactions could limit Regions’ ability to attract and retain customers and to compete for new business opportunities. The inability to attract and retain customers or to effectively compete for new business may have a material and adverse effect on Regions’ financial condition and results of operations.  We may not pay dividends on your common stock.  Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. In addition, features of our outstanding trust preferred securities and preferred securities permit us to defer interest payments on those securities; however, if we defer interest on those securities we would not be permitted to pay dividends on our common stock until we resume paying interest on those securities. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Also, participation in the CPP limits our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding.  Regions has been the subject of increased litigation which could result in legal liability and damage to its reputation.  Regions and certain of its subsidiaries have been named from time to time as defendants in various class actions and other litigation relating to their business and activities. Past, present and future litigation have included or could include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. Regions and certain of its subsidiaries are also involved from time to time in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding their business. These matters also could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against Regions or its subsidiaries could materially adversely affect Regions’ business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations and/or cause significant reputational harm to Regions’ business.      Item 2.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds