Item 1A.  Risk Factors  The following are additional risk factors for Regions, to be read in conjunction with Item 1A., “Risk Factors” in Regions Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.  Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may have a significant adverse effect on Regions’ operations.  Recent economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies and political bodies placing increased focus and scrutiny on the financial services industry. The U.S. Government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to what has been commonly referred to as the financial crisis. In addition to the U.S. Treasury Department’s Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) announced in the fall of 2008 and the Capital Assistance Program announced last spring, further steps taken include enhancing the liquidity support available to financial institutions, establishing a commercial paper funding facility, temporarily guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of debt issuances, and increasing insurance on bank deposits. Also, the U.S. Congress, through the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”), has imposed a number of restrictions and limitations on the operations of financial services firms participating in the federal programs. Most recently, on June 17, 2009, the U.S. Government released a financial regulatory reform plan that would, if enacted, represent the most sweeping reform of financial regulation and financial services since the 1930s.  These programs and proposals subject Regions and other financial institutions to additional restrictions, oversight and costs that may have an adverse impact on the business, financial condition and results of operations of Regions and its subsidiaries or the price of Regions’ common stock. The financial reform plan would, if enacted, further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices. The financial reform plan contemplates, among other reforms, the creation of a consumer financial protection agency and changes to the capital requirements for banks and financial holding companies. Compliance with these and other parts of the financial reform plan could adversely affect Regions and its subsidiaries, perhaps materially, by significantly increasing compliance costs, impeding the efficiency of internal business processes, limiting the ability to efficiently pursue business opportunities and requiring Regions or Regions Bank to raise additional regulatory capital.    78    Table of Contents Additionally, federal and state regulatory agencies frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. Regions cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation, regulation or the application thereof. Compliance with any such legislation, regulation or the application thereof may adversely affect the operations of Regions and its subsidiaries, perhaps materially.  The limitations on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA and its implementing regulations may adversely affect Regions’ ability to retain its highest performing employees.  Regions has not yet repurchased the U.S. Treasury’s CPP investment and therefore remains subject to the restrictions on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA. On June 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury released its interim final rule implementing the provisions of the ARRA and limiting the compensation practices at institutions in which the U.S. Treasury is invested. Some financial institutions have repurchased the U.S. Treasury’s CPP investment, relieving those institutions of the restrictions imposed by the ARRA and the U.S. Treasury’s implementing regulations. Due to these restrictions, Regions may not be able to successfully compete with financial institutions that have repurchased the U.S. Treasury’s investment to retain and attract high performing employees. If this were to occur, Regions and its subsidiaries’ businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially.  Regions may not be permitted to repurchase the U.S. Treasury’s CPP investment if and when it requests approval to do so.  Although Regions has fully met the Tier 1 common equity capital requirements prescribed by the U.S. Treasury’s Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (“SCAP”), Regions has not yet requested the approval of the U.S. Treasury to repurchase the Series A Preferred Stock and warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP. In order to repurchase one or both of such securities, in whole or in part, Regions must establish that it has satisfied all of the conditions to repurchase and must obtain the approval of the U.S. Treasury. There can be no assurance that Regions will be able to repurchase the U.S. Treasury’s TARP investment.  Ratings agencies recently downgraded our securities and the deposit ratings of Regions Bank; these downgrades and any subsequent downgrades could adversely impact the price and liquidity of our securities and could have an adverse impact on our businesses and results of operations.  The ratings assigned to Regions’ debt securities and the debt securities of Regions Bank have recently been downgraded. In addition, many of our ratings remain on creditwatch with negative implications or negative outlook. See Table 12 and related discussion on pages 58 and 59 for further discussion. The ratings assigned to Regions’ debt securities and the debt securities of Regions Bank remain subject to change at any time, and it is possible that any of the ratings agencies will further downgrade these obligations.  In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix and level and quality of earnings, and Regions may not be able to maintain the aforementioned credit ratings. In addition, ratings agencies have themselves been subject to scrutiny arising from the financial crisis such that the ratings agencies may make or may be required to make substantial changes to their ratings policies and practices. Such changes may adversely affect the ratings of Regions’ securities or other securities in which Regions has an economic interest. Any decrease, or potential decrease, in credit ratings could impact Regions’ access to the capital markets and/or increase the cost of debt, and thereby adversely affect Regions’ liquidity and financial condition.  Regions’ off-balance sheet arrangements include facilities supporting Variable Rate Demand Notes (“VRDNs”), including certain standby letters of credit and standby bond purchase agreements (also referred to as “liquidity facilities”). Total fundings within the VRDN portfolio as of June 30, 2009 include $2.3 billion in the loan portfolio and $0.1 billion in the available for sale securities portfolio. As of June 30, 2009, Regions’ VRDN portfolio included unfunded letters of credit of approximately $2.4 billion (net of participations) and unfunded liquidity facilities of approximately $0.2 billion. Downgrades of Regions’ short-term deposit ratings increase the     79    Table of Contents  risk that the VRDNs will be subject to a failed remarketing, which would result in Regions being required to fund up to $2.6 billion of which $2.4 billion would be classified as loans and $0.2 billion as available for sale securities. Where Regions Bank is providing forms of credit support such as letters of credit, standby lending arrangements or other forms of credit support, a decline in short-term credit ratings may require that customers of Regions Bank seek replacement credit support from a higher rated institution. Regions cannot predict whether customer relationships or opportunities for future relationships could be adversely affected by customers who choose to do business with a higher rated institution.  You may not receive dividends on the common stock.  Holders of Regions common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as Regions’ board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Furthermore, holders of Regions common stock are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of Regions preferred stock then outstanding. As of June 30, 2009, there were 3,500,000 shares of Regions’ Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock Series A (the “Series A Preferred Stock”) and 287,500 shares of Regions’ 10% Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B (the “Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock”), each with liquidation amount of $1,000 per share, issued and outstanding. Under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock and the Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, Regions’ ability to declare and pay dividends on or repurchase Regions common stock will be subject to restrictions in the event Regions fails to declare and pay (or set aside for payment) full dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock or the Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock.  Regions has reduced its quarterly common stock dividend to $0.01 per share. Regions does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above $0.01 for the foreseeable future and could determine to eliminate its common stock dividend altogether. Furthermore, as long as the Series A Preferred Stock or the Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock are outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including Regions common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. In addition, prior to November 14, 2011, unless Regions has redeemed all of the Series A Preferred Stock or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury will be required for Regions to, among other things, increase its common stock dividend above $0.10 except in limited circumstances. This could adversely affect the market price of Regions common stock. Also, Regions is a bank holding company, and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends.  In addition, the terms of Regions’ outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit it from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on Regions’ capital stock, including its common stock, or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if Regions has given notice of its election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing.  Regions may elect, and shall elect if so instructed by the Federal Reserve, to accelerate the conversion date of the Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock.  Regions may elect in its sole discretion (but if so directed by the Federal Reserve, Regions shall so elect), to accelerate the conversion of all or a portion of the Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock upon not less than 45 and not more than 60 days’ prior written notice. Any acceleration of the conversion date could result in a decline in the market price of Regions common stock. Such a conversion of the Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock would also dilute Regions’ existing shareholders.    80    Table of Contents Regions has been the subject of increased litigation which could result in legal liability and damage to its reputation.  Regions and certain of its subsidiaries have been named from time to time as defendants in various class actions and other litigation relating to their business and activities. Past, present and future litigation have included or could include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. Regions and certain of its subsidiaries are also involved from time to time in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding their business. These matters also could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against Regions or its subsidiaries could materially adversely affect Regions’ business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations and/or cause significant reputational harm to Regions’ business. Additional information relating to litigation affecting Regions and its subsidiaries is discussed in “Legal Proceedings.”      Item 2.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds