Item 1A.  Risk Factors  The following is an additional risk factor for Regions, to be read in conjunction with Item 1A., “Risk Factors” in Regions’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and in Regions’ Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009.  Ratings agencies recently downgraded our securities and the deposit ratings of Regions Bank; these downgrades and any subsequent downgrades could adversely impact the price and liquidity of our securities and could have an adverse impact on our businesses and results of operations.  The ratings assigned to Regions’ debt securities and the debt securities of Regions Bank have recently been downgraded. On May 18, 2009, Regions’ senior notes, subordinated notes and junior subordinated notes and Regions Bank’s financial strength, long-term deposits and short-term deposits were downgraded, by Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”). Moody’s maintains a negative outlook on Regions. On June 17, 2009, in connection with an industry-wide review of the financial sector, Standard & Poor’s downgraded Regions’ senior notes, subordinated notes and junior subordinated notes, and Regions Bank’s short-term deposits, senior notes and subordinated notes. As part of a similar industry-wide review of the financial sector, on June 16, 2009, Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”) downgraded Regions’ senior notes, subordinated notes and junior subordinated notes, and Regions Bank’s senior notes and subordinated notes. Regions Bank’s short-term deposit rating of F1 was affirmed by Fitch. Fitch maintains a negative outlook on Regions. On October 22, 2009, Dominion Bond Rating Service downgraded Regions’ senior notes, subordinated notes and junior subordinated notes, and Regions Bank’s short-term debt, long-term bank deposits, long-term debt and subordinated debt. On November 4, 2009, Standard & Poor’s announced an additional downgrade of Regions’ senior notes, subordinated notes and junior subordinated notes and Regions Bank’s long-term bank deposits, long-term debt and subordinated debt. Standard & Poor’s maintains a negative outlook on Regions. See Table 13 – Credit Ratings in Management’s Discussion and Analysis for a tabular presentation of ratings as of September 30, 2009, as well as tabular presentations of the recent downgrades. The ratings assigned to Regions’ debt securities and the debt securities of Regions Bank remain subject to change at any time and it is possible that any of the ratings agencies will further downgrade these obligations.    84    Table of Contents In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix and level and quality of earnings, and Regions may not be able to maintain its current credit ratings. In addition, ratings agencies have themselves been subject to scrutiny arising from the financial crisis such that the rating agencies may make or may be required to make substantial changes to their ratings policies and practices. Such changes may, among other things, adversely affect the ratings of Regions’ securities or other securities in which Regions has an economic interest. Any decrease, or potential decrease, in credit ratings could impact Regions’ access to the capital markets or short-term funding and/or increase our financing costs, and thereby adversely affect Regions’ liquidity and financial condition. Where Regions Bank is providing forms of credit support such as letters of credit, standby lending arrangements or other forms of credit support, a decline in short-term credit ratings may require that customers of Regions Bank seek replacement credit support from a higher rated institution. We cannot predict whether customer relationships or opportunities for future relationships could be adversely affected by customers who choose to do business with a higher rated institution.      Item 2.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds