Item 1A. Risk Factors  Any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets and/or place limitations on business activities related to credit support provided to customers.  The major rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. Over the past 12 months, all of the major ratings agencies downgraded Regions’ and Regions Bank’s credit ratings. In addition, many of our ratings remain on negative watch or negative outlook. Negative outlook, negative watch or other similar terms mean that a future downgrade is possible. The ratings assigned to Regions and Regions Bank remain subject to change at any time, and it is possible that any ratings agency will take action to downgrade Regions, Regions Bank or both in the future. During 2010, Moody’s Investor Services (“Moody’s”) announced, among other things, that the debt and deposit ratings of the seventeen largest U.S. banking institutions, including Regions and Regions Bank, could be negatively affected by the loss of implicit government support contained in the current financial regulatory reform legislation being debated in Congress. In its announcements, Moody’s stated that its current rating of Region Bank benefits by 2 notches and its current rating of Regions benefits by 1 notch from Moody’s assumption regarding government support. Given continued uncertainty regarding the final form of any such regulatory reform, Moody’s has said that it is unlikely to take actions regarding affected banks’ ratings until the law’s content and implications have been clarified and its impact on specific institutions can be assessed. Other ratings agencies may undertake similar reviews of their current ratings of Regions and Regions Bank in response to the financial regulatory reform legislation.  In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix and level and quality of earnings, and we may not be able to    75    Table of Contents  maintain our current credit ratings. In addition, ratings agencies have themselves been subject to scrutiny arising from the financial crisis such that the rating agencies may make or may be required to make substantial changes to their ratings policies and practices. Such changes may, among other things, adversely affect the ratings of our securities or other securities in which we have an economic interest. Any decrease in credit ratings to a non-investment grade rating by one or more ratings agencies, could impact our access to the capital markets or short-term funding and/or increase our financial costs, and thereby adversely affect Regions’ financial condition and liquidity. Currently, Regions’ Senior ratings from Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s, Fitch Ratings and DBRS are 1, 1, 3 and 3 notches, respectively, above non-investment grade ratings. Where Regions is providing forms of credit support such as letters of credit, standby lending arrangements or other forms of credit support, a decline in short-term credit ratings may require that customers of Regions seek replacement credit support from a higher rated institution. Our counterparties are also sensitive to the risk of a ratings downgrade and may be less likely to engage in transactions with us, or may only engage in them at a substantially higher cost, if our ratings were downgraded to below investment grade. We cannot predict whether customer relationships or opportunities for future relationships could be adversely affected by customers who choose to do business with a higher rated institution.  The effect of such downgrades in our derivative positions is discussed in Note 9 “Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part 1 Item 1. of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our credit ratings are discussed in greater detail under the “Credit Ratings” section of Part 1 Item 2. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.      Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds