ITEM 1(A). RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as other information contained in or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Other risks and uncertainties that we do not presently consider to be material or of which we are not presently aware may become important factors that affect our company in the future. If any of the risks discussed below actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our business and operating results depend in large part on volatility in the prices and interest rates underlying our derivative products and may be adversely impacted by domestic and international economic and market conditions. Participants in the markets for our products, including energy and agricultural commodities, financial and equity derivatives and other securities, trade pursuant to a range of trading strategies. Trading volume is driven primarily by the degree of volatility - the magnitude and frequency of fluctuations - in prices and interest rates of the underlying commodities, indices, benchmarks or other measures. Volatility increases the need to hedge contractual price risk and creates opportunities for speculative or arbitrage trading. Were there to be a sustained period of stability in the prices of the underlying commodities, indices, benchmarks or other measures of our derivative products, we could experience lower trading volumes, slower growth or declines in revenues.Factors that are particularly likely to affect price and interest rate levels and volatility, and thus trading volumes and our operating results, include: •global and domestic economic, political and market conditions; •weather conditions, including hurricanes, natural disasters and other significant weather events, and unnatural disasters like large oil spills that impact the production of commodities, and, in the case of energy commodities, production, refining and distribution facilities for oil and natural gas; •real and perceived changes in the supply and demand of commodities underlying our products, particularly energy and agricultural products, including changes as a result of technological improvements; •war, acts of terrorism and any unforeseen market closures or disruptions in trading; •credit quality of market participants, the availability of capital and the levels of assets under management; •broad trends in industry and finance, including consolidation in our industry, and the level and volatility of interest rates, fluctuating exchange rates, our hedging actions, and currency values; and •concerns over inflation, deflation, legislative and regulatory changes, government fiscal and monetary policy - including actions by the Federal Reserve, and investor and consumer confidence levels. Any one or more of these factors may reduce trading activity, which could make our markets less attractive to market participants as a source of liquidity, which in turn could further discourage existing and potential market participants and thus accelerate a decline in the level of trading activity in these markets. A significant decline in our trading volumes could have a material adverse effect on our transaction-based revenues and the demand for our market data. Moreover, if these unfavorable conditions were to persist over a lengthy period of time and trading volumes were to decline substantially and for a long enough period, the critical mass of transaction volume necessary to support viable markets could be jeopardized. Because our cost structure is largely fixed, if demand for our current products and services decline for any reason, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure to counteract the associated decline in revenues, and our net income will decline. 29The conditions in global financial markets and new laws and regulations as a result of such conditions may adversely affect our trading volumes and market liquidity.A significant portion of our consolidated revenues are derived from fees for transactions executed and cleared in our markets and from the provision of electronic trade confirmation services. We derived 84%, 87% and 89% of our consolidated revenues from our transaction-based business for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. On a pro forma basis, giving effect to our acquisition of NYSE Euronext as if it had occurred on January 1, 2011, we would have derived 60%, 60% and 63% of our consolidated revenues from our transaction-based business for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In particular, we derive a significant percentage of the consolidated revenues from our transaction-based business from trading in ICE Brent Crude futures and options contracts, North American natural gas futures and options contracts, and subsequent to our acquisition of NYSE Euronext, short term interest rates contracts, including the Euribor and Short Sterling futures and options contracts. Consequently, declines in trading volumes and market liquidity generally, or in our ICE Brent Crude, North American natural gas or short term interest rates futures and options contracts in particular, would adversely affect our business and profitability. The trading volumes in our markets could decline substantially if our market participants reduce their level of trading activity for any reason, including the factors referenced above that impact volatility, or other factors such as: •a reduction in the number of market participants that use our platform; •a reduction in trading demand by customers or a decision to curtail or cease hedging or speculative trading;•regulatory or legislative changes; •heightened capital maintenance requirements resulting from new regulation or mandated reductions in existing leverage; •defaults by clearing members that have deposits in our clearing houses or the inability of CDS protection sellers to pay out contractual obligations upon the occurrence of a credit event; •changes to our contract specifications that are not viewed favorably by our market participants; or•reduced access to capital required to fund trading activities.A reduction in our overall trading volume could also render our markets less attractive to market participants as a source of liquidity, which could result in further loss of trading volume and associated transaction-based revenues. Further, a reduction in trading volumes would likely result in a corresponding decrease in the demand for our market data that would reduce our overall revenue. Our businesses and those of many of our clients have been and continue to be subject to increased legislation and regulatory scrutiny, and we face the risk of changes to this regulatory environment and business in the future, which may reduce our trading and clearing volumes or increase our cost of doing business. As an owner and operator of regulated exchanges and clearing houses for the global financial and commodity markets, we are and will continue to be subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions around the world, and in particular in the United States and United Kingdom where the largest portions of our operations are conducted. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory and taxing authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses and hold investments. Among other things, as a result of regulators enforcing existing laws and regulations, we could be censured, fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities, subjected to limitations or conditions on our business activities or subjected to new or substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our business or with respect to our employees. In many cases, our activities may be subject to overlapping and divergent regulation in different jurisdictions.There is also the risk that new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or those of our clients, including access to our markets and capital, liquidity and margin requirements, could be imposed, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively with other institutions that are not affected in the same way or which may impact our clients’ overall trading volume through our exchanges and demand for our market data and other services. In addition, regulation imposed on financial institutions or market participants generally, such as the proposed proprietary trading restrictions for certain banking organizations in both the U.S. and Europe, could adversely impact levels of market activity and price volatility more broadly, and thus impact our businesses. These developments could impact our profitability in the affected jurisdictions, or even make it uneconomical for us to continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses in such jurisdictions, or could cause us to incur significant costs associated with changing our business practices, restructuring our businesses, or moving all or certain of our businesses and our employees to other locations, including liquidating assets or raising capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs or otherwise adversely affects our stockholders and creditors. In addition, certain developments could increase our liability for performing our 30oversight requirements. For example, in August 2013, the Securities Industry and Financial Market Association, or SIFMA, asked the SEC to review the SRO structure of the securities markets and protections SROs have against liability in performing their oversight functions. In its letter, SIFMA stated that for-profit exchanges compete with the broker dealers they regulate, which SIFMA argues undercuts the regulatory authority of exchanges. The SEC has not announced any review of the SRO structure in response to SIFMA's request. The SEC has also indicated an intent to undertake a broad review of the equities market structure, the outcome of which we cannot predict.  U.S. and European legal and regulatory developments in response to the global financial crisis, in particular the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act, EMIR and MiFID II have significantly altered the regulatory framework within which we operate and may adversely affect our competitive position and profitability. Among the aspects of these recently enacted and proposed legal and regulatory changes most likely to affect our businesses are: MiFID II’s open access requirements, MiFID II’s benchmark access requirements, the CFTC’s proposed rules limiting aggregate positions for energy and agricultural products across exchanges in the spot month and across all months; commodity position limit rules in Europe, a proposal by the Federal Reserve to limit bank participation in the physical commodity business, and EMIR’s rule requiring clearing houses use a two day holding period in the calculation of initial margin. In addition, as the operator of a global business, the lack of harmonization in international financial reform efforts could impact our business as our clearing houses and exchanges are subject to regulation in multiple jurisdictions. Other enacted and proposed legal and regulatory changes not discussed above may also adversely affect our competitive position and profitability.Please see “Item 1 - Business - Regulation” above for additional information regarding the current and proposed laws and regulations that impact our business, including risks to our business associated with these laws and regulations. We face intense competition that could materially and adversely affect our business.We face intense competition in all aspects of our business. We believe competition in our businesses is based on a number of important factors including, but not limited to, market liquidity, transparency, technology advancements, platform speed and reliability, regulatory differences, new and existing product offerings, pricing and risk management capabilities. Our competitors, both domestic and international, are numerous. We currently compete with: •regulated, diversified futures exchanges globally that offer trading in a variety of asset classes similar to those offered by us, such as energy, agriculture, equity and equity index, credit, and interest rate derivatives markets and foreign exchange; •exchanges offering listing and trading of cash equities, exchange-traded funds, closed-end funds and other structured products similar to those offered by us;•voice brokers active in the global commodities and credit markets; •existing and newly formed electronic trading platforms, service providers and other exchanges; •other clearing houses; •consortiums of our customers, members or market participants that may pool their trading activity to establish new exchanges, trading platforms or clearing facilities;•inter-dealer brokers; and •market data and information vendors. Trends towards the globalization of capital markets have resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in markets and increased competition among markets in different geographical areas. Competition in the market for derivatives trading and clearing and in the market for cash equity listings, trading and execution have intensified as a result of consolidation, as the markets become more global in connection with the increase in electronic trading platforms and the desire by existing exchanges to diversify their product offerings. In our equities business, the recently announced proposed combination of BATS Global Markets, Inc. and Direct Edge, LLC may increase competitive pressures. Further, a regional exchange in an emerging market country, such as Brazil, India or China, or a producer country, could attract enough trading activity to compete with our benchmark products. Finally, many of our competitors are our largest customers or are owned by our customers and may prioritize their internalization and alternative trading system businesses ahead of their exchange-based market making business.A decline in our fees due to competitive pressure, the inability to successfully launch new products or the loss of customers due to competition could lower our revenues, which would adversely affect our profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to expand our product offerings, or that we will be able to retain our current customers or attract new customers. If we are not able to compete successfully our business could be materially impacted, including our ability to sustain as an operating entity. 31In our listings business, the legal and regulatory environment in the United States, and the market perceptions about that environment, may make it difficult for our U.S. equity exchanges to compete with non-U.S. equity exchanges for listings. For example, negative perceptions regarding compliance costs associated with adherence to corporate governance requirements have and may continue to discourage future listings on U.S. equity exchanges by both U.S. and foreign private issuers. Any failure by our equity exchanges to successfully compete for any reason could adversely impact our revenue derived from listing fees and the associated trading, execution and market data fees.We may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings, growth opportunities and synergies and other benefits anticipated from our acquisition of NYSE Euronext. The success of our acquisition of NYSE Euronext will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, revenue synergies and growth opportunities. We expect to benefit from operational synergies resulting from the consolidation of capabilities and elimination of redundancies. Specifically, we expect to achieve cost savings of approximately $500 million within the three years following the acquisition. We have set an aggressive timeline for realizing these cost savings resulting from the acquisition (with approximately 70% of these cost savings expected to be achieved at a run-rate level by the fourth quarter of 2014 and more than 90% synergy achievement by the end of 2015), which assumes we successfully separate NYSE Liffe from Euronext, divest portions of the NYSE Technologies business, integrate technology, eliminate redundancies and effect an organizational restructuring, all of which are subject to a variety of risks and certain of which are subject to regulatory approvals that we do not control. We also expect to achieve revenue synergies from the acquisition in our clearing business and the development of new products, although we may not be successful. There is a risk, however, that we may not integrate NYSE Euronext in a manner that permits these costs savings and revenue synergies to be realized in the time currently expected, or at all. In addition, a variety of factors, including but not limited to regulatory conditions or delay, or requirements related to the Euronext IPO, currency fluctuations, and difficulty integrating technology platforms, may adversely affect our anticipated cost savings and synergies. Also, we must achieve the anticipated cost savings without adversely affecting our revenues. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. We may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings, growth opportunities and synergies and other benefits anticipated from mergers and acquisitions, strategic joint ventures or investments, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. The success of our mergers and acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated expense synergies, integration success and growth opportunities, as well as revenue growth trends. In general, we expect to benefit from operational synergies resulting from the consolidation of capabilities and elimination of redundancies. However, the process of integration may disrupt each company’s ongoing businesses, produce unforeseen regulatory and operating difficulties (including inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect relationships with market participants, regulators and others), require substantial resources and expenditures, and divert the attention of management from the ongoing operation of our business. As a result, we may not successfully achieve the integration objectives from any particular merger or acquisition, and we may not realize the anticipated cost savings, revenue growth and synergies in full or at all, or it may take longer to realize them than expected. We may also not realize anticipated growth opportunities and other benefits from strategic investments or strategic joint ventures that we have entered into or may enter into in the future for a number of reasons, including regulatory or government approvals or changes, global market changes, contractual obligations, competing products and, in some instances, our lack of or limited control over the management of the business. Further, strategic initiatives that have historically been successful may not continue to be successful due to competitive threats, changing market conditions or the inability for the parties to extend the relationship into the future. We may not be able to complete an IPO of Euronext.We plan to separate the businesses of Euronext and Liffe, and to transition all of Liffe’s business to ICE’s exchanges, clearing houses and trading platform in order to establish Euronext as an independent business. We are currently pursuing an IPO of Euronext, which is expected in the second quarter of 2014. There are significant risks and uncertainties associated with the potential IPO of Euronext and the transition of Liffe’s business, including required regulatory approvals and requirements, and potential unforeseen uncertainties and delays. We may also be unable to sell the Euronext businesses at a desirable price, may not be able to complete the transaction on a desirable timeline or may incur higher than anticipated expenses related to the transaction. Whether or not the IPO of Euronext is successful, the process of accomplishing the transaction may result in increased general and administrative expenses and divert management’s time and attention from other business concerns. Realizing the benefits of the 32potential IPO of Euronext will depend in part on our ability to separate certain of Euronext’s businesses in an efficient and effective manner while maintaining adequate focus on its retained businesses. In addition, separation of the Euronext businesses is subject to regulatory approval by the individual regulators of Euronext's businesses. Regulatory approval will be conditioned on the assumption by Euronext of certain undertakings to regulators and adoption of provisions in its constitutional documents satisfactory to regulators, as well as the assumption by us of undertakings in relation to our potential role as a large shareholder in Euronext following any IPO. Regulatory approval for a separation of the Euronext businesses may not be forthcoming or it may be granted subject to conditions that are not acceptable to us or that might make an IPO difficult to execute. Our inability to complete the IPO or our agreement to any regulatory commitments and constraints following an IPO may make it difficult for us to achieve adequate returns on our holding in Euronext, which could also negatively impact our credit ratings and our ability to reduce our debt.We intend to continue offering new products and to explore acquisition opportunities and strategic alliances relating to other businesses, products or technologies, which will involve risks. We may not be successful in offering new products or identifying opportunities. We intend to launch new products and continue to explore and pursue acquisition and other opportunities to strengthen our business and grow our company. We may spend substantial time and money developing new product offerings or improving current product offerings. If these product offerings are not successful, we may miss a potential market opportunity and not be able to offset the costs of such initiatives. We may also enter into business combination transactions, make acquisitions or enter into strategic partnerships, joint ventures or alliances, any of which may be material and will involve risks. Further, we may enter into or increase our presence in markets that already possess established competitors who may enjoy the protection of high barriers to entry. Attracting customers in certain countries may also be subject to a number of risks, including currency exchange rate risk, difficulties in enforcing agreements or collecting receivables, longer payment cycles, compliance with the laws or regulations of these countries, and political and regulatory uncertainties. In addition, in light of consolidation in the exchange and clearing sector and competition for opportunities, we may be unable to identify strategic opportunities or we may be unable to negotiate or finance any future acquisition successfully. Our competitors could merge, making it more difficult for us to find appropriate entities to acquire or merge with and making it more difficult to compete in our industry due to the increased resources of our merged competitors. If we are required to raise capital by incurring additional debt or issuing additional equity for any reason in connection with a strategic acquisition or investment, we cannot assure you that any such financing will be available or that the terms of such financing or equity offering will be favorable to us. Also, offering new products and pursuing acquisitions requires substantial time and attention of our management team, which could prevent them from successfully overseeing other initiatives. As a result of any future acquisition, we may issue additional shares of our common stock that dilute shareholders’ ownership interest in us, expend cash, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities, inherit existing or pending litigation or create additional expenses related to amortizing intangible assets with estimable useful lives, any of which could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations and negatively impact our stock price. Owning clearing houses exposes us to risks, including the risk of defaults by clearing members clearing trades through our clearing houses, risks regarding investing the funds in the guaranty fund and held as security for original margin, and risks related to the cost of operating the clearing houses. Operating clearing houses requires material ongoing expenditures and exposes us to various risks. There are risks inherent in operating a clearing house, including exposure to the market and counterparty risk of clearing members, defaults by clearing members and risks associated with investing collateral provided by clearing members to our clearing houses, which could subject our business to substantial losses. For example, clearing members have placed an aggregate amount of cash in ICE Clear Europe relating to margin requirements and funding the guaranty funds of $24.5 billion as of December 31, 2013 and a total of $42.2 billion for all of our clearing houses as of December 31, 2013. For ICE Clear Europe, these funds are swept and invested daily by JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. and Citibank N.A. in accordance with our clearing house investment guidelines. ICE Clear Credit and ICE Clear U.S. currently self-manage the cash that their clearing members leave on deposit to satisfy their respective original margin and guaranty fund requirements. During the first and second quarters of 2014, both ICE Clear Credit and ICE Clear U.S. expect to transition to the use of external investment advisors for the investment activity associated with the clearing member cash deposits. Our clearing houses have an obligation to return margin payments and guaranty fund contributions to clearing members once the relevant clearing member’s exposure to the clearing house no longer exists. If the number of large, well-capitalized banks that 33are clearing members decreases, the concentration of risks within our clearing houses will be spread among a smaller pool of clearing members, which makes it more difficult to absorb and manage risk in the event of a clearing member's default. Although our clearing houses have policies and procedures to help ensure that clearing members can satisfy their obligations, such policies and procedures may not succeed in preventing losses after a counterparty’s default. In addition, the process for deriving margins and financial safeguards for our trading activity is complex, especially for CDS products, and although we believe that we have carefully analyzed the process for setting margins and our financial safeguards, there is no guarantee that our procedures will adequately protect us from the risks of clearing these products. We cannot assure you that these measures and safeguards will be sufficient to protect us from a default or that we will not be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default. We have contributed our own capital to the guaranty fund of the clearing houses that could be used in the event of a default where the defaulting clearing participant’s margins, the defaulting clearing participant’s guaranty fund contributions and non-defaulting clients net funds of the clearing participant are not sufficient to cover the default. Furthermore, the default of any one of the clearing members could subject our business to substantial losses and cause our customers to lose confidence in the guarantee of our clearing houses. Our clearing houses hold substantial amounts of funds and sovereign and government guaranteed agency debt securities as collateral for original margin and guaranty fund deposits. A decline in the value of these securities or default by a sovereign government could subject our clearing houses to additional risks of default by their clearing members or the value of the sovereign treasury securities held by our clearing houses may be insufficient.Our clearing houses hold a substantial amount of client assets as collateral, which comprise U.S. and other sovereign treasury securities. As of December 31, 2013, our clearing houses held $25.9 billion of non-cash collateral: $15.9 billion of this amount was comprised of U.S. Treasury securities, $2.2 billion was comprised of German Treasury securities, $1.3 billion was comprised of French Treasury securities, $1.0 billion was comprised of U.K. Treasury securities and $4.0 billion was comprised of other European and Canadian Treasury securities. Sovereign treasury securities have historically been viewed as one of the safest securities for clearing houses to hold due to the perceived credit worthiness of major governments, but the markets for such treasury securities have experienced significant volatility recently. Our clearing houses apply a discount or "haircut" to the market values for all sovereign securities held as collateral. The markets for such treasury securities have experienced significant volatility recently related to on-going financial challenges in some of the major European countries and leading up to the U.S. government’s negotiations regarding tax increases, spending cuts and raising the debt ceiling, which is the maximum amount of debt that the U.S. government can legally incur. In addition, if there is a collapse of the euro, our clearing houses would face significant expenses in changing their systems and such an event could cause a credit contraction and major swings in asset prices and exchange rates. Notwithstanding the current intraday margin and valuation checks conducted by our clearing houses, our clearing houses will need to continue to monitor the volatility and value of U.S. and other sovereign treasury securities because if the value of these treasury securities declines significantly, our clearing houses will need to collect additional collateral from their clearing members, which may be difficult for the clearing members to supply in the event of a time of financial stress affected by an actual or threatened default by a sovereign government. In addition, our clearing houses may be required to impose a more significant discount on the value of sovereign treasury securities posted as collateral if there is uncertainty regarding the future value of these securities, which would trigger the need for additional collateral contributions by the clearing members. If a clearing member cannot supply the additional collateral, which may include cash deposits in a currency acceptable to the clearing house, the clearing house would deem the clearing member in default. If any clearing members default as a result of the reduction in value of their collateral, our clearing houses and trading business could suffer substantial losses as a result of the loss of our own capital that has been contributed to the clearing house’s guaranty fund, a reduction in the volume of cleared transactions and a loss of confidence by clearing members in the guaranty of the clearing houses. Further, our clearing houses invest large sums of money through reverse repo transactions in connection with their clearing operations and may hold sovereign securities as security in connection with such investment transactions. Our clearing houses may make time deposits with banks that are secured only to the value of FDIC insurance and therefore, if the U.S. government defaults on its debt obligations, our deposits may in significant part be lost in the event one of these banks becomes insolvent. Our clearing houses that utilize time deposits currently manage such exposure by limiting the counterparties with which time deposits are made and the value of such loans. However, such limits may not be feasible in the event of a significant shortfall in available security for loans as a result of a potential default by the U.S. government. In such event our clearing houses may make time deposits with lesser credit worthy counterparties or increase the loan size limit for existing counterparties, which leads to more risks with respect to the funds held by the clearing houses and could lead to substantial losses. Owning and operating exchanges exposes us to risks, including the regulatory responsibilities these businesses must conduct under applicable law. 34In addition to the risks we had operating various derivatives exchanges prior to our acquisition of NYSE Euronext, we now own and operate equity exchanges, which exposes us to additional risks. Revenues from our equity exchanges are primarily derived from listing fees, trading activity and demand for related market data. Adverse economic conditions and regulatory changes similar to those discussed above could result in decreased trading volume, discourage market participants from listing on our equity exchanges or cause market participants to reduce the size of new offerings listed on our equity exchanges. Any of these could reduce our revenues, including the market data revenue we generate from providing market data, which is determined based on trading volume, and from listing fees. In addition, our exchanges are operated as for-profit businesses but under applicable law have certain regulatory responsibilities that must be fulfilled. Any failure by one of our exchanges with self-regulatory responsibility to diligently and fairly regulate its member organizations, ensure market compliance or to otherwise fulfill its regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt regulatory scrutiny and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In particular, NYSE Regulation, our wholly owned not-for-profit indirect subsidiary, oversees FINRA's performance of market surveillance of our SEC-regulated U.S. exchanges and related enforcement activities, enforces listed company compliance with applicable standards, oversees regulatory policy determinations, rule interpretation and regulation-related rule development, and conducts limited real-time trading reviews. We must allocate significant resources to fulfill our self-regulatory responsibilities and to FINRA to perform these functions, which limits our ability to reduce our expense structure. The for-profit entity's goal of maximizing stockholder value might contradict the exchange’s responsibilities as a regulator of its members, users and listed companies. Conflicts also arise when a company lists its securities on an exchange that it owns. The listing of our common stock on the NYSE could potentially create a conflict between the exchange’s regulatory responsibilities to vigorously oversee the listing and trading of securities, on the one hand, and our commercial and economic interest, on the other hand. While we have structural protections to minimize these potential conflicts, we cannot be sure that such measures will be successful. Our compliance and risk management methods might not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. Our ability to comply with applicable complex and changing laws and rules is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, audit and reporting systems, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other risk management personnel. While we have policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our risks, we cannot assure you that our policies and procedures will always be effective or that we will always be successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed. Regulators periodically review our exchanges’ ability to self-regulate and our compliance with a variety of laws and self-regulatory standards. In particular, certain of our businesses acquired in the NYSE Euronext acquisition are subject to public notice procedures prior to making changes in operations, policies and procedures. If we fail to comply with any of these obligations, regulators could take a variety of actions that could impair our ability to conduct our business. In addition, our regulators have broad enforcement powers to censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders or prohibit us from engaging in some of our businesses. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extensive examination and surveillance activity. In the case of non-compliance or alleged non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to investigations and proceedings that may result in substantial penalties or civil lawsuits, including by customers, for damages which can be significant. Any of these outcomes would adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. In extreme cases, these outcomes could adversely affect our ability to continue to conduct our business. The ability of our exchanges to comply with all applicable laws and rules as a self-regulatory organization is largely dependent on our maintenance of compliance, surveillance, audit and reporting systems. We cannot assure you that these systems and procedures are fully effective. Failure to comply with current or future regulatory requirements could subject us to significant penalties, including termination of our ability to conduct our regulated businesses. Further, the implementation of new legislation or regulations, or changes in or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies, could require us to incur significant compliance costs and impede our ability to operate, expand and enhance our electronic platform as necessary to remain competitive and grow our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill, other intangible assets or investments, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, the determination of the value of goodwill and other intangible assets with respect to our acquisitions and other investments requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2013, we had goodwill of $9.5 billion and net other 35intangible assets of $9.4 billion relating to our acquisitions (including our acquisition of NYSE Euronext), our purchase of trademarks and Internet domain names from various third parties, and the Russell licensing agreement. We also have $324 million in long-term investments relating to our equity security investment in Cetip S.A., or Cetip. We recorded a $190 million impairment loss on our investment in Cetip during the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily due to the devaluation of the Brazilian real, associated with Cetip, since the investment in July 2011. For additional information on the Cetip impairment, refer to note 5 to our consolidated financial statements and related notes which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We assess goodwill, other intangible assets and other investments and assets for impairment by applying a fair-value based test looking at historical performance, capital requirements and projected cash flows on an annual basis or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. We cannot assure you that we will not experience future events that may result in asset impairments. An impairment of the value of our existing goodwill, other intangible assets and other investments and assets could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results. For additional information on our goodwill, other intangible assets and short-term investments, refer to notes 5 and 7 to our consolidated financial statements and related notes and “Critical Accounting Policies - Goodwill and Other Identifiable Intangible Assets” in Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we are unable to keep up with rapid changes in technology and participant preferences, we may not be able to compete effectively. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality, accessibility and reliability of our electronic platforms and our proprietary technology. The financial services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, change in use patterns, change in client preferences, frequent product and service introductions and the emergence of new industry standards and practices. These changes could render our existing proprietary technology uncompetitive or obsolete. Our ability to pursue our strategic objectives, including increasing trading volumes on our trading platforms, as well as our ability to continue to grow our business, will depend, in part, on our ability to: •enhance our existing services and maintain and improve the functionality, speed and reliability of our electronic platform, in particular, reducing network downtime or disruptions; •develop or license new technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our participants; •increase trading and clearing system functionality to support future growth; •continue to build on technology provided to customers and maintain or grow the use of WebICE by our customers; •anticipate and respond to technological advances, customer demands and emerging industry practices on a cost-effective and timely basis; and •continue to attract and retain highly skilled technology staff to maintain and develop our existing technology and to adapt to and manage emerging technologies while attempting to keep our employee headcount low. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology to our participants’ requirements or emerging industry standards in a timely and cost-effective manner. Any failure to remain abreast of industry standards in technology and to be responsive to participant preferences could cause our market share to decline and negatively impact our revenues. Our business may be harmed by computer and communications systems failures and delays. We support and maintain many of the systems that comprise our electronic platforms. Our failure to monitor or maintain these systems, or to find replacements for defective components within a system in a timely and cost-effective manner when necessary, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. Although we fully replicate our primary data center, our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans may prove to be inadequate in the event of a systems failure or cyber-security breach. Our systems, or those of our third party providers, may fail or be shut down or, due to capacity constraints, may operate slowly, causing one or more of the following: •unanticipated disruption in service to our participants; •slower response time and delays in our participants’ trade execution and processing; •failed settlement by participants to whom we provide trade confirmation or clearing services; •incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; 36•failure to complete the clearing house margin settlement process resulting in significant financial risk; •our distribution of inaccurate or untimely market data to participants who rely on this data in their trading activity; and •financial loss. We could experience system failures due to power or telecommunications failures, human error on our part or on the part of our vendors or participants, natural disasters, fire, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism or terrorism and similar events. If any one or more of these situations were to arise, they could result in damage to our business reputation, participant dissatisfaction with our electronic platform, prompting participants to trade elsewhere, or exposure to litigation or regulatory sanctions. As a consequence, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. Our regulated business operations generally require that our trade execution and communications systems be able to handle anticipated present and future peak trading volume. Heavy use of computer systems during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility could cause those systems to operate slowly or even to fail for periods of time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volume will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volume without failure or degradation of performance. Although many of our systems are designed to accommodate additional volume and products and services without redesign or replacement, we will need to continue to make significant investments in additional hardware and software and telecommunications infrastructure to accommodate the increases in volume of order and trading transaction traffic and to provide processing and clearing services to third parties. If we cannot increase the capacity and capabilities of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions and to execute our business strategy, our ability to maintain or expand our businesses would be adversely affected. Our systems and those of our third party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks, hacking and cyber attacks, especially in light of our role in the global financial marketplace, which could result in wrongful use of our information, or which could make our participants reluctant to use our electronic platform. We regard the secure transmission of confidential information and the ability to continuously transact and clear on our electronic platforms as critical elements of our operations. Our networks and those of our participants, our third party service providers and external market infrastructures, may, however, be vulnerable to unauthorized access, fraud, computer viruses, human error, denial of service attacks, terrorism, firewall or encryption failures and other security problems. Recently, the financial services industry has been targeted for purposes of fraud, political protest and activism. Further, former employees of certain companies in the financial sector have misappropriated trade secrets or stolen source code in the past, and we could be a target for such illegal acts in the future. There also may be system or network disruptions if new or upgraded systems are defective or not tested and installed properly. For example, phishing and hacking incidents in Europe as reported in the press have resulted in unauthorized transfers of certain affected European Union emissions allowances, or EUAs, from accounts in various European registries, none of which were operated by us. The affected EUAs have been transferred between registry accounts and eventually some affected EUAs were delivered by clearing members to the clearing house’s registered accounts in the United Kingdom pursuant to delivery obligations under relevant ICE Futures Europe contracts. Further, some affected EUAs were delivered to ICE Clear Europe’s registered accounts in the United Kingdom as collateral. We are also aware of litigation between some market participants in connection with these stolen certificates and it is possible that we could be joined to such litigation in the future. Although we have not been the victim of cyber attacks or other cyber incidents that have had a material impact on our operations or financial condition, we have from time to time experienced cyber security breaches such as distributed denial of service attacks, computer malware, phishing attempts and other information technology violations that are typical for a company of our size that operates in the global financial marketplace. As part of our overall risk management program, we operate an internal Information Security Incident Management program that is designed to detect and mitigate cyber incidents and that has detected and mitigated such incidents in the past. Although we intend to implement additional industry standard security measures in the future to the extent necessary to maintain the effectiveness of our Information Security program, we cannot assure you that these measures will be sufficient to protect our business against attacks, losses or reduced trading volume in our markets as a result of any security breach, hacking or cyber attack. Any such attacks could result in reputational damage, could cause system failures or delays that could cause us to lose customers, could cause us to experience lower current and future trading volumes or incur significant liabilities or could have a negative impact on our competitive position. Additionally, current and future security measures may involve significant expenses to purchase and maintain, which could adversely impact our net income.37Systems failures elsewhere in the securities trading industry could also negatively impact us.Several high-profile systems failures occurred recently in the U.S. securities trading industry, renewing concerns among regulators and investors about the safety and resiliency of securities trading platforms. It is possible that securities regulators could impose new requirements for securities trading platforms that would be costly for us to implement, or that could result in a decrease in demand for some of our services. In particular, the SEC's proposed Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity, or Regulation SCI, would subject portions of our securities trading platforms and other technological systems to more extensive regulation and oversight. Ensuring our compliance with the requirements of Regulation SCI for this portion of our platforms and systems could require significant implementation costs as well as increased ongoing administrative expenses and burdens. If systems failures in the industry continue to occur, it is also possible that investor confidence in the securities trading industry could diminish, leading to decreased trading volume and revenue. Whether or not any of our own systems experience material failures, any of these developments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.Damage to our reputation resulting from our administration of LIBOR could adversely affect our business.Our subsidiary, ICE Benchmark Administration Limited, or IBAL, is the new administrator for LIBOR. IBAL's administration of LIBOR is the result of the recent Libor scandal, which was a series of fraudulent actions taken by banks that were falsely inflating or deflating their rates so as to profit from trades, or to give the impression that their trades were more creditworthy than they were. Any failures or negative publicity resulting from the transition of administration from the British Bankers' Association to IBAL, or our administration following completion of the transition, could result in a further loss of confidence in the administration of LIBOR and could harm our reputation. Damage to our reputation could cause some market participants to reduce their trading volume on our exchanges or to cease using some or all of our other services. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial results. Since we conduct operations in several different countries, including the United States, several European countries and Canada, substantial portions of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, euros and Canadian dollars. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against the other currencies will affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Although we have entered into hedging transactions and may enter into additional hedging transactions in the future to help mitigate our foreign exchange risk exposure, these hedging arrangements may not be effective, particularly in the event of imprecise forecasts of the levels of our non-U.S. denominated assets and liabilities. Accordingly, if there are adverse movements in exchange rates, we may suffer significant losses, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our investment in, or acquisition of, businesses outside of the United States, and developing markets in particular, could subject us to a variety of investment risks. We have investments outside of the United States, including in countries with developing markets for commodities trading. In particular, we own approximately 12% of the common stock of Cetip, we have a partnership in BRIX, which is a Brazilian marketplace for trading electric power, and in February 2014, we completed the acquisition of the SMX, an exchange operator for commodity trading in Asia. The ability of companies we invest in or acquire to maintain or expand their businesses may be subject to many risks to which we are not otherwise subject, including market risks related to sufficient demand to support the expansion of their business, local legal and regulatory risks and political risks such as nationalization, expropriation and outbreak of hostilities or war. This is particularly true for any investments we make in companies operating in developing markets, which may be subject to greater fluctuations in trading volumes and other revenue sources as the markets for their products are not sufficiently established. There is no guarantee that our investments will be successful or that we will be able to sell our investments or acquisitions at prices and terms favorable to us. Further, a decrease in value of the currencies where we have investments or acquired businesses would decrease the value of our investments or acquired businesses in these foreign jurisdictions and would have a negative impact on our financial statements. Loss of our exclusive licenses to list certain index options could adversely affect our business.We hold exclusive licenses to list various index futures and contracts, including Russell’s Index and DTCC GCF Repo Index® futures. The owners of these indices may not renew the licenses with us on an exclusive basis or at all, and the terms of some of these licenses, including our licensing agreement with Russell, require that we achieve certain volume levels to maintain 38exclusivity. Additionally, litigation or regulatory action, like MiFID II, may limit the right of owners to grant exclusive licenses for index futures and contracts trading to a single exchange, and our competitors may succeed in providing economically similar products in a manner or jurisdiction not otherwise covered by our exclusive license. As previously discussed, MiFID II introduced a harmonized approach to the licensing of services relating to commodity derivatives across Europe and the legislation requires open access to any benchmarks (a benchmark is an index or other measure used to determine the value of a financial instrument, for example, LIBOR or the S&P 500) used in Europe. The final scope of the requirement is expected to be decided over the next year. If unlicensed trading of any index product where we hold an exclusive license were permitted, we could lose trading volume for these products which would adversely affect our revenues associated with the license and the related index products. Owning and operating voice broker businesses exposes us to additional risk, and these businesses are largely dependent on their broker-dealer clients. Our voice broker business is primarily transaction-based, and it provides brokerage services to clients primarily in the form of agency transactions, although it also engages in a limited number of matched principal transactions. In agency transactions, customers pay transaction fees for trade execution services in which we connect buyers and sellers who settle their transactions directly. In matched principal transactions (also known as “risk-less principal” transactions), we agree to buy instruments from one customer and sell them to another customer. The amount of the fee generally depends on the spread between the buy and sell price of the security that is brokered. The majority of transactions by Creditex and Creditex Brokerage, which are the subsidiaries that engage in our voice broker business, are agency transactions, and the matched principal transactions accounted for approximately 9% of the total transactions for Creditex and Creditex Brokerage for the year ended December 31, 2013. With respect to matched principal transactions, a counterparty to a matched principal transaction may fail to fulfill its obligations, or Creditex or Creditex Brokerage may face liability for an unmatched trade. Declines in trading volumes in credit derivatives would adversely affect the revenues we derive from Creditex. We also face the risk of not being able to collect transaction or processing fees charged to customers for brokerage services and processing services we provide. A failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, could adversely affect our business. Our business is dependent on proprietary technology and other intellectual property that we own or license from third parties, including trademarks, service marks, trade names, trade secrets copyrights and patents. We cannot assure you that the steps that we have taken or will take in the future will prevent misappropriation of our proprietary technology or intellectual property. Additionally, we may be unable to detect the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property. Our failure to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property adequately could harm our reputation and affect our ability to compete effectively. Further, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which may require significant financial and managerial resources. As a result, we may choose not to enforce our infringed intellectual property rights, depending on our strategic evaluation and judgment regarding the best use of our resources, the relative strength of our intellectual property portfolio and the recourse available to us. In addition, our competitors, as well as other companies and individuals, may have obtained, and may be expected to obtain in the future, patent rights related to the types of products and services we offer or plan to offer. We cannot assure you that we are or will be aware of all patents that may pose a risk of infringement by our products and services. As a result, we may face allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties which may be costly for us to defend against. If one or more of our products or services is found to infringe patents held by others, we may be required to stop developing or marketing the products or services, obtain licenses to develop and market the products or services from the holders of the patents or redesign the products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing the patents. We also could be required to pay damages if we were found to infringe patents held by others, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We cannot assess the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, whether such licenses would be available or, if available, whether we would be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms. If we were unable to obtain such licenses, we may not be able to redesign our products or services at a reasonable cost to avoid infringement, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We rely on third party providers and other suppliers for a number of services that are important to our business. An interruption or cessation of an important service or supply by any third party could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on a number of suppliers, such as online service providers, hosting service and software providers, data processors, software and hardware vendors, banks, local and regional utility providers, and telecommunications companies, for elements of our trading, clearing and other systems. We rely on access to certain data used in our business through licenses with 39third parties, and we rely on a large international telecommunications company for the provision of hosting services. The general trend toward industry consolidation may increase the risk that these services may not be available to us in the future. If these companies were to discontinue providing services to us for any reason or fail to provide the type of service agreed to, we would likely experience significant disruption to our business and may be subject to litigation by our clients or increased regulatory scrutiny or regulatory fines.Many of our clients also rely on third parties, such as online service providers, software providers, software and hardware vendors, local and regional utility providers, and telecommunications companies, to provide them with systems necessary to access our trading platform. If these companies were to discontinue providing services to our clients for any reason, we may experience a loss of revenue associated with our clients’ inability to transact with our businesses.We are subject to significant litigation and liability risks. Many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our participants, involve substantial risks of liability. These risks include, among others, potential liability from disputes over terms of a trade and the claim that a system failure or delay caused monetary loss to a participant or that an unauthorized trade occurred. For example, dissatisfied market participants that have traded on our electronic platform or those on whose behalf such participants have traded, may make claims regarding the quality of trade execution, or allege improperly confirmed or settled trades, abusive trading practices, security and confidentiality breaches, mismanagement or even fraud against us or our participants. In addition, because of the ease and speed with which sizable trades can be executed on our electronic platform, participants can lose substantial amounts by inadvertently entering trade orders or by entering them inaccurately. A large number of significant error trades could result in participant dissatisfaction and a decline in participant willingness to trade in our electronic markets. In addition, we are subject to various legal disputes, some of which we are involved in due to acquisition activity. We could incur significant expenses defending claims, even those without merit, which could adversely affect our financing condition and operating results. An adverse resolution of any lawsuit or claim against us may require us to pay substantial damages or impose restrictions on how we conduct business, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We may be at greater risk from terrorism than other companies.Given our prominence in the global securities industry and the location of many of our properties and personnel in U.S. and European financial centers, including lower Manhattan, we may be more likely than other companies to be a direct target of, or an indirect casualty of, attacks by terrorists or terrorist organizations, or other extremist organizations that employ threatening or harassing means to achieve their social or political objectives.It is impossible to predict the likelihood or impact of any terrorist attack on the securities industry generally or on our business. In the event of an attack or a threat of an attack, our security measures and contingency plans may be inadequate to prevent significant disruptions in our business, technology or access to the infrastructure necessary to maintain our business. Damage to our facilities due to terrorist attacks may be significantly in excess of insurance coverage, and we may not be able to insure against some damage at a reasonable price or at all. The threat of terrorist attacks may also negatively affect our ability to attract and retain employees. In addition, terrorist attacks may cause instability or decreased trading in the securities markets, including trading on exchanges. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.We currently have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness on a consolidated basis which could restrict our ability to engage in additional transactions or incur additional indebtedness. Following our acquisition of NYSE Euronext, we have a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding on a consolidated basis. As of December 31, 2013, we had $5.1 billion of outstanding debt. This substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including making it more difficult to satisfy our debt obligations, increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and restricting us from pursuing certain business opportunities. We have publicly announced our intention to reduce our indebtedness on a consolidated basis in the near term. As we use our available resources to reduce and refinance our consolidated debt, our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and our ability to pursue future business opportunities may be further restrained. In addition, the terms of our debt facilities contain affirmative and negative covenants, including leverage and interest coverage ratios, as well as limitations or required notices or approvals for acquisitions, dispositions of assets and certain investment in subsidiaries, the incurrence of additional debt or the creation of liens and other matters.Our long-term debt is currently rated by Moody’s Investor Services and Standard & Poor’s. These ratings agencies regularly evaluate us and our credit ratings based on a number of quantitative and qualitative factors, including our financial strength and 40conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. Our credit ratings remain subject to change at any time, and it is possible that a ratings agency may take action to downgrade us in the future. In particular, our inability to effectively reduce our debt on a consolidated basis and within the time period communicated to our ratings agencies and the markets generally may result in a downgrade of our credit ratings, and our ability to reduce our debt as expected may be impaired if we are unable to recognize part or all of the anticipated expense synergies from our acquisition of NYSE Euronext, including the successful completion of Euronext’s initial public offering in a timely manner. In addition, a significant decrease in our credit rating could impact the regulatory status of our clearing houses and make parties less willing to do business with our clearing houses and our exchanges that clear products through our clearing houses. Any downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively impact our ability to access the capital markets, increase the cost of any future debt funding we may obtain and violate certain undertakings and commitments with the Euronext College of Regulators.An “extraterritorial” change of law may adversely affect our business and, under certain special arrangements, our rights to control a substantial portion of our assets. We own both U.S. and European exchanges and trading platforms. Although we do not anticipate that there will be a material adverse application of European laws to our U.S. exchanges and platforms, or a material adverse application of U.S. laws to our European exchanges and platforms, the possibility of such an occurrence cannot be ruled out entirely. If this were to occur, and we were not able to effectively mitigate the effects of such “extraterritorial” application, our affected exchanges and platforms could experience a reduction in trading or in the number of listed companies or business from other market participants, or our business could otherwise be adversely affected. In addition, certain special arrangements consisting of two standby structures, one involving a Dutch foundation and one involving a Delaware trust, exist in relation to our U.S. equity exchanges and our European equity exchanges. The Dutch foundation is empowered to take actions to mitigate the adverse effects of any potential changes in U.S. law that have certain extraterritorial effects on our European regulated markets and the Delaware trust is empowered to take actions to ameliorate the adverse effects of any potential changes in European law that have certain extraterritorial material effects on our U.S. equity exchanges. These actions include the exercise by the foundation or the trust of potentially significant control over the applicable European regulated markets or the U.S. exchanges, as the case may be. Although the Dutch foundation and the Delaware trust are required to act in our best interests, subject to certain exceptions, and any remedies may be implemented only for so long as the effects of the material adverse application of law persist, we may, as a result of the exercise of such rights, be required to transfer control over a substantial portion of the Euronext business or the applicable U.S. exchanges to the direction of the trust or the foundation. Any such transfer of control could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy, including our strategy for the Euronext business, and our ability to operate on an integrated and global basis, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from our subsidiaries. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by certain of our subsidiaries to us. If our subsidiaries are unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our stockholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. Further, we have guaranteed the payment of certain obligations by our subsidiaries IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. and NYSE Euronext Holdings, LLC. These guarantees may require us to provide substantial funds or assets to creditors of our subsidiaries at a time when we are in need of liquidity to fund our own obligations and may affect our ability to make dividend payments to our stockholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt.Provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware law may delay or deter a change of control of ICE Group. Our organizational documents contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of, or unsolicited acquisition proposals for, ICE Group. These provisions make a change of control less likely, which may be contrary to the desires of certain of our stockholders. Many of these provisions are required by relevant regulators in connection with our ownership and operation of U.S. and European equity exchanges. For example, our organizational documents include provisions that generally restrict any person (either alone or together with its related persons) from (i) voting or causing the voting of shares of stock representing more than 10% of our outstanding voting capital stock (including as a result of any agreement by any other persons not to vote shares of stock) or (ii) beneficially owning shares of stock representing more than 20% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock. Further, our organizational documents generally limit the ability of stockholders to call special stockholders’ meetings or act by written consent, and generally authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue and fix the rights and preferences of one or more series of preferred stock. In 41addition, provisions of Delaware law may have a similar effect, such as provisions limiting the ability of certain interested stockholders, as defined under Delaware law, from causing the merger or acquisition of a corporation against the wishes of the board of directors. ITEM 1 (B). UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS