ITEM 1(A). RISK FACTORSThe risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Other risks and uncertainties that we do not presently consider to be material or of which we are not presently aware may become important factors that affect us in the future. If any of the risks discussed below actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Accordingly, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as other information contained in or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report.Impact of financial markets volatility, including the prices and interest rates underlying our derivative products.Trading volume in our markets and products is largely driven by the degree of volatility - the magnitude and frequency of fluctuations - in prices and levels of the underlying commodities, securities, indices, financial benchmarks or other instruments. 19Volatility increases the need to hedge price risk and creates opportunities for speculative or arbitrage trading. Were there to be a sustained period of stability in the prices or levels of the underlying commodities, securities, indices, benchmarks or other instruments of our products, we could experience lower trading volumes, slower growth or declines in revenues.Factors that are particularly likely to affect price and interest rate levels and volatility, and thus trading volumes, include:•global and domestic economic, political and market conditions; •concerns over inflation, deflation, legislative and regulatory changes, government fiscal and monetary policy - including actions by the Federal Reserve, other foreign monetary units governing bodies, and investor and consumer confidence levels;•weather conditions including hurricanes and other significant events, natural and other unnatural disasters like large oil spills that impact the production of commodities, and, in the case of energy commodities, production, refining and distribution facilities for oil and natural gas; •war, acts of terrorism and any unforeseen market closures or disruptions in trading; •real and perceived changes in the supply and demand of commodities underlying our products, particularly energy and agricultural products, including changes as a result of technological improvements; and•credit quality of market participants, the availability of capital and the levels of assets under management. Any one or more of these factors may reduce trading activity, which could make our markets less attractive as a source of liquidity, and in turn could further discourage existing and potential market participants and thus accelerate a decline in the level of trading activity and potentially related services such as data or clearing. Further, most of these factors are beyond our control. If any of these unfavorable conditions were to persist over a lengthy period of time and trading volumes were to decline substantially and for a long enough period, the critical mass of transaction volume necessary to support viable markets could be jeopardized. Because our cost structure is largely fixed, if demand for our current products and services decline for any reason, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure to counteract the associated decline in revenues, and our net income will decline.Global financial markets conditions and new laws and regulations.The conditions in global financial markets will impact our business. If our customers reduce spending, workforce, trading activity or demand for financial data as a result of challenges in the financial markets, our revenues will decline. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from fees for transactions executed and cleared in our markets. We derived 56%, 61% and 79% of our consolidated revenues, less transaction-based expenses, from our transaction-based business in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. In particular, we derive a significant percentage of the consolidated revenues from our transaction-based business from trading in ICE Brent Crude futures and options contracts, North American natural gas futures and options contracts, sugar futures and options contracts, equity transactions and short term interest rates contracts, including the Euribor and Short Sterling futures and options contracts. The trading volumes in our markets could decline substantially if our market participants reduce their level of trading activity for any reason, including the factors referenced above that impact volatility, such as:•a reduction in the number of market participants that use our platform; •a reduction in trading demand by customers or a decision to curtail or cease hedging or speculative trading;•regulatory or legislative changes impacting our customers and financial markets; •heightened capital requirements or mandated reductions in leverage resulting from new regulation; •defaults by clearing members or the inability of CDS participants to pay out contractual obligations; •changes to our contract specifications that are not viewed favorably by our market participants; or•reduced access to or availability of capital required to fund trading activities.A reduction in our overall trading volume could also render our markets less attractive to market participants as a source of liquidity, which could result in further loss of trading volume and associated transaction-based revenues. A reduction in trading volumes would also likely result in a corresponding decrease in the demand for our market data that would further reduce our overall revenue.Our businesses and those of many of our clients have been and continue to be subject to increased legislation and regulatory scrutiny, and we face the risk of changes to this regulatory environment and business in the future.We are and will continue to be subject to extensive regulation in many jurisdictions around the world, and in particular in the U.S. and the U.K. where the largest portions of our operations are conducted. We face the risk of significant actions by regulatory 20and taxing authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses and hold investments that may affect our business, the activity of our market participants, and as a consequence, our results. Among other things, as a result of regulators enforcing existing laws and regulations, we could be censured, fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities, subjected to limitations or conditions on our business activities or subjected to new or substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our business or with respect to our employees. In many cases, our activities may be subject to overlapping and divergent regulation in different jurisdictions.There is also the risk that new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement practices applicable to our businesses or those of our clients could be imposed, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively with other institutions that are not affected in the same way or which may impact our clients’ overall trading volume through our exchanges and demand for our market data and other services. In addition, regulation imposed on financial institutions or market participants generally, such as the proposed proprietary trading restrictions for certain banking organizations in both the U.S. and Europe, could adversely impact levels of market activity and price volatility more broadly, and thus impact our businesses.These developments could impact our profitability in the affected jurisdictions, or even make it uneconomical for us to continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses in such jurisdictions, or could cause us to incur significant costs associated with changing our business practices, restructuring our businesses, or moving all or certain of our businesses and our employees to other jurisdictions, including liquidating assets or raising capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs or otherwise adversely affects our stockholders and creditors. In addition, certain developments could increase our liability for performing our oversight requirements. U.S. and European legal and regulatory developments in response to the global financial crisis, in particular the Dodd-Frank Act, EMIR and MiFID II, have significantly altered and propose to further alter the regulatory framework within which we operate and may adversely affect our competitive position and profitability. Among the aspects of these recently enacted and proposed legal and regulatory changes most likely to affect our businesses are: position limit rules in the U.S. and Europe, non-discriminatory access provisions of MiFID II, capital charges in Basel III, including the supplemental leverage ratio, the harmonization of margin provisions, the recognition of our businesses in foreign jurisdictions, implementation of a financial transaction tax, access to our benchmarks, monitoring of automated trading under Regulation AT and maintaining our exchanges' abilities to operate as SROs with related immunity for the discharge of their regulatory functions. As the operator of global businesses, the lack of harmonization in international financial reform efforts could impact our business as our clearing houses and exchanges are subject to regulation in multiple jurisdictions. The Dodd-Frank Act established enhanced regulatory requirements for non-bank financial institutions designated as “systemically important” by the FSOC. ICE Clear Credit has been designated as a systemically important financial market utility by the FSOC and as a result, is subject to additional oversight by the CFTC.Other enacted and proposed legal and regulatory changes not discussed above may also adversely affect our competitive position and profitability. See Item 1 "- Business - Regulation” above for additional information regarding the current and proposed laws and regulations that impact our business, including risks to our business associated with these laws and regulations. Systems failures in the derivatives and securities trading industry could negatively impact us.High-profile system failures in the derivatives and securities trading industry, like the one we suffered at NYSE on July 8, 2015, could negatively impact our business. Regulators have imposed new requirements for trading platforms that have been costly for us to implement, or that could result in a decrease in demand for some of our services. In particular, the SEC's Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity, or Regulation SCI, subjects portions of our securities trading platforms and other technological systems to more extensive regulation and oversight. Ensuring our compliance with the requirements of Regulation SCI for this portion of our platforms and systems requires significant implementation costs as well as increased ongoing administrative expenses and burdens. If system failures in the industry continue to occur, it is also possible that investor confidence in the trading industry could diminish, leading to decreased trading volume and revenue. Whether or not any of our own systems experience material failures, any of these developments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.We face intense competition.We face intense competition in all aspects of our business and our competitors, both domestic and international, are numerous. We currently compete with:•regulated, diversified futures exchanges globally that offer trading in a variety of asset classes similar to those offered by us, such as energy, agriculture, equity and equity index, credit, and interest rate derivatives markets and foreign exchange; 21•exchanges offering listing and trading of cash equities, exchange-traded funds, closed-end funds and other structured products similar to those offered by us;•market data and information vendors;•interdealer brokers active in the global credit derivatives markets; •existing and newly formed electronic trading platforms, service providers and other exchanges; •other clearing houses; and•consortiums of our customers, members or market participants that may pool their trading activity to establish new exchanges, trading platforms or clearing facilities. Trends towards the globalization of capital markets have resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in markets and increased competition among markets in different geographical areas. Competition in the market for derivatives trading and clearing and in the market for cash equity listings, trading and execution have intensified as a result of consolidation, as the markets become more global in connection with the increase in electronic trading platforms and the desire by existing exchanges to diversify their product offerings. Finally, many of our competitors are our largest customers or are owned by our customers and may prioritize their internalization and alternative trading system businesses ahead of their exchange-based market making business.A decline in our fees due to competitive pressure, the inability to successfully launch new products or the loss of customers due to competition could lower our revenues, which would adversely affect our profitability. For example, Interactive Data's business has benefited from a high renewal rate in its subscription based business but we cannot assure you that this will continue. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to expand our product offerings, or that we will be able to retain our current customers or attract new customers. If we are not able to compete successfully our business could be materially impacted, including our ability to sustain as an operating entity.In our listings business, the legal and regulatory environment in the U.S., and the market perceptions about that environment, may make it difficult for our U.S. equity exchanges to compete with non-U.S. equity exchanges for listings. For example, negative perceptions regarding compliance costs associated with adherence to corporate governance requirements have and may continue to discourage listings on U.S. equity exchanges by both U.S. and foreign private issuers. Any failure by our exchanges to successfully compete for any reason could adversely impact our revenue derived from listing fees and the associated trading, execution and market data fees.We may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings, growth opportunities and synergies and other benefits anticipated from our recent acquisitions and future acquisitions, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock.We have completed many acquisitions and plan to continue to pursue acquisitions and joint ventures when we deem it appropriate. Recently, we completed the acquisition of the following companies:•NYSE in November 2013;•SuperDerivatives in October 2014;•Interactive Data in December 2015; and•Trayport in December 2015.The success of our acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate these businesses into our existing operations and realize anticipated cost savings, revenue synergies and growth opportunities. We expect to benefit from operational synergies resulting from the consolidation of capabilities and elimination of redundancies. We generally set aggressive timelines for realizing savings, which assumes we successfully undertake a variety of actions (including, but not limited to, integrating technology, eliminating redundancies and effecting organizational restructurings) that are themselves subject to a variety of risks and may be subject to regulatory approvals that we do not control. With respect to Interactive Data, we expect to achieve $150 million in annual cost synergies with 90% of these synergies expected to be achieved exiting 2018. There is a risk, however, that we may not integrate these acquired companies in a manner that permits our expected cost savings and revenue synergies to be fully realized in the time periods expected, or at all. In addition, a variety of factors, including but not limited to regulatory conditions, governmental competition approvals, currency fluctuations, and difficulty integrating technology platforms, may adversely affect our anticipated cost savings and synergies. For example, The Competition and Markets Authority in the U.K. is currently reviewing our acquisition of Trayport under the merger control laws of the U.K. This review could force us to take certain actions that may result in us not realizing the benefits of the acquisition at all.22The process of integration may disrupt each company’s ongoing businesses, produce unforeseen regulatory and operating difficulties (including inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect relationships with market participants, regulators and others), require substantial resources and expenditures, and divert the attention of management from the ongoing operation of our business. As a result, we may not achieve the integration objectives, cost savings, revenue growth and synergies in full or at all, or it may take longer to realize them than expected for any particular merger or acquisition.We may also not realize anticipated growth opportunities and other benefits from strategic investments or strategic joint ventures or alliances that we have entered into or may enter into for a number of reasons, including regulatory or government approvals or changes, global market changes, contractual obligations, competing products and, in some instances, our lack of or limited control over the management of the business. Further, strategic initiatives that have historically been successful may not continue to be successful due to competitive threats, changing market conditions or the inability for the parties to extend the relationship into the future.We continue to look for strategic growth opportunities in line with our business strategy and will pursue acquisitions when we believe that they are in our best interests. We may be very acquisitive. As a result of any future acquisition, we may issue additional shares of our common stock that dilute our shareholders’ ownership interest, expend cash, incur debt, assume actual and contingent liabilities, inherit existing or pending litigation or create additional expenses related to amortizing intangible assets. Further, we cannot assure you that any such financing or equity investments will be available with terms that will be favorable to us, or available at all.Owning clearing houses exposes us to risks, including risk related to defaults by clearing members, risks related to investing margin and guaranty funds, and the cost of operating the clearing houses.There are risks inherent in operating a clearing house, including exposure to the market and counterparty risk of clearing members, defaults by clearing members and risks associated with investing collateral provided by clearing members to our clearing houses, which could subject our business to substantial losses. For example, clearing members have placed an aggregate amount of cash in ICE Clear Europe relating to margin requirements and funding the guaranty funds of $31.0 billion as of December 31, 2015 and a total of $51.2 billion for all of our clearing houses as of December 31, 2015. ICE Clear Europe and ICE Clear U.S. use third party investment managers for investment activity of their clearing members cash deposits and may add or change the investment managers from time to time. ICE Clear Credit currently self-manages the majority of the cash that its clearing members leave on deposit to satisfy their respective original margin and guaranty fund requirements. ICE Clear Credit uses external investment managers to invest the remainder of their clearing members' cash deposits.We have an obligation to return margin payments and guaranty fund contributions to clearing members once the relevant member’s exposure to the clearing house no longer exists. If the number of large, well-capitalized banks that are clearing members decreases, the concentration of risks within our clearing houses will be spread among a smaller pool of clearing members, which makes it more difficult to absorb and manage risk in the event of a clearing member's default.Although our clearing houses have policies and procedures to help ensure that clearing members can satisfy their obligations, such policies and procedures may not succeed in preventing losses after a member or a counterparty’s default. In addition, although we believe that we have carefully analyzed the process for setting margins and our financial safeguards, it is a complex process and there is no guarantee that our procedures will adequately protect us from the risks of clearing these products. We cannot assure you that these measures and safeguards will be sufficient to protect us from a default or that we will not be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default. We have contributed our own capital to the guaranty fund of the clearing houses that could be used in the event of a default. Furthermore, the default of any one of the clearing members could subject our business to substantial losses and cause our customers to lose confidence in the guarantee of our clearing houses.A decline in the value of securities held as collateral by our clearing houses or default by a sovereign government issuer could pose additional risks of default by clearing members.Our clearing houses hold a substantial amount of assets as collateral, which comprise U.S. and other sovereign treasury securities. As of December 31, 2015, our clearing houses held $35.7 billion of non-cash collateral in U.S. and other sovereign treasury securities: $25.8 billion of this amount was comprised of U.S. Treasury securities, $2.0 billion of U.K. Treasury securities, $1.6 billion of French Treasury securities, $770 million of German Treasury securities, $719 million of Italian Treasury securities, and $4.8 billion of other European, Japanese and Tri-Party Treasury securities. Sovereign treasury securities have historically been viewed as one of the safest and most liquid securities for clearing houses to hold due to the perceived credit worthiness of major governments, although the markets for such securities have experienced significant volatility during the past decade. The markets for such treasury securities have experienced significant volatility recently related to on-going financial challenges in some of the major European countries and leading up to the U.S. government’s negotiations regarding tax increases, spending cuts and raising 23the debt ceiling, which is the maximum amount of debt that the U.S. government can legally incur. In addition, if there is a collapse of the euro, our clearing houses would face significant expenses in changing their systems and such an event could cause a credit contraction and major swings in asset prices and exchange rates. To mitigate this risk, our clearing houses currently apply a discount or "haircut" to the market values for all sovereign securities held as collateral; however, market conditions could change more quickly than we adjust the amount of the haircuts and the haircuts could be insufficient in the event of a sudden market event.Notwithstanding the current intraday margin and valuation checks conducted by our clearing houses and our policies and practices to limit exposures, our clearing houses will need to continue to monitor the volatility and value of U.S. and other sovereign treasury securities because if the value of these securities declines significantly, our clearing houses will need to collect additional collateral from their clearing members, which may be difficult for the members to supply in a time of financial stress affected by an actual or threatened default by a sovereign government. In addition, our clearing houses may be required to impose a more significant discount on the value of sovereign treasury securities posted as collateral if there is uncertainty regarding the future value of these securities, which would trigger the need for additional collateral contributions by the clearing members. If a clearing member cannot supply the additional collateral, which may include cash deposits in a currency acceptable to the clearing house, the clearing house would deem the clearing member in default. If any clearing members default as a result of the reduction in value of their collateral, our clearing houses and trading business could suffer substantial losses as a result of the loss of our own capital that has been contributed to the clearing house’s guaranty fund and a loss of confidence by clearing members in the guaranty of the clearing house, resulting in a reduction in volumes of future cleared transactions.Further, our clearing houses invest large sums through reverse repo transactions in connection with their clearing operations and may hold sovereign securities as security in connection with such investment transactions. Our clearing houses may also make time deposits with banks that are secured only to the value of FDIC insurance, which is small, and therefore, our deposits may in significant part be lost in the event one of these banks becomes insolvent. Owning and operating equity exchanges exposes us to additional risks, including the regulatory responsibilities to which these businesses are subject.Owning and operating equity exchanges exposes us to additional risks. Their revenues are primarily derived from market data, listing fees and trading activity. Adverse economic conditions and regulatory changes similar to those discussed above could result in decreased trading volume, discourage market participants from listing on our equity exchanges or cause them to forgo new offerings. Any of these could reduce our revenues, including market data revenue.Our exchanges are operated as for-profit businesses but have certain regulatory responsibilities that must be fulfilled. Specifically, our exchanges are responsible for enforcing listed company compliance with applicable listing standards, overseeing regulatory policy determinations, rule interpretation and regulation-related rule development, and conducting trading reviews. Any failure by one of our exchanges with self-regulatory responsibility to comply with, and enforce compliance by their members, with exchange rules and securities laws could significantly harm our reputation, prompt regulatory scrutiny and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We must allocate significant resources to fulfill our self-regulatory responsibilities. The for-profit exchanges' goal of maximizing stockholder value might contradict the exchanges' self-regulatory responsibilities. The listing of our common stock on the NYSE could potentially create a conflict between the exchange’s regulatory responsibilities to vigorously oversee the listing and trading of securities, on the one hand, and our commercial and economic interest, on the other hand. While we have structural protections to minimize these potential conflicts, we cannot be sure that such measures will be successful.We may not be successful in offering new products or technologies or in identifying opportunities.We intend to launch new products and continue to explore and pursue other opportunities to strengthen our business and grow our company. We may spend substantial time and money developing new product offerings or improving current product offerings. If these offerings are not successful, we may miss a potential market opportunity and not be able to recover the costs of such initiatives. Obtaining any required regulatory approval associated with these offerings may also result in delays or restrictions on our ability to fully benefit from these offerings. Further, we may enter into or increase our presence in markets that already possess established competitors who may enjoy the protection of high barriers to entry. Attracting customers in certain countries may also be subject to a number of risks, including currency exchange rate risk, difficulties in enforcing agreements or collecting receivables, longer payment cycles, compliance with the laws or regulations of these countries, and political and regulatory uncertainties.In addition, in light of consolidation in the exchange, data services and clearing sectors and competition for opportunities, we may be unable to identify strategic opportunities or we may be unable to negotiate or finance any future acquisition successfully. 24Our competitors could merge, making it more difficult for us to find appropriate entities to acquire or merge with and making it more difficult to compete in our industry due to the increased resources of our merged competitors. Also, offering new products and pursuing acquisitions requires substantial time and attention of our management team, which could prevent them from successfully overseeing other initiatives that are necessary for our success.We have made substantial progress toward developing and deploying new technology platforms to improve our equity exchange business and data services business. We may experience disruptions or encounter unexpected challenges in deploying these new systems. Further, the costs to complete the remaining work may exceed our current expectations for those costs. Any significant cost increases or disruptions to product quality, sales effectiveness or client service or to our other business operations could have an adverse effect on our operations and results of operations.Our compliance and risk management methods, as well as our fulfillment of our regulatory obligations, might not be effective.Our ability to comply with complex and changing laws and rules is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, audit and reporting systems, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other risk management personnel. While we have policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our risks and regulatory obligations, we cannot assure you that our policies and procedures will always be effective or that we will always be successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed. Regulators periodically review our exchanges’ ability to self-regulate and our compliance with a variety of laws and regulations including self-regulatory standards. In particular, certain of our businesses acquired in the NYSE acquisition are subject to public notice procedures prior to making changes in operations, policies and procedures. If we fail to comply with any of these obligations, regulators could take a variety of actions that could impair our ability to conduct our business.Our recent acquisition of Interactive Data exposes us to new regulatory requirements, specifically, Interactive Data Pricing and Reference Data LLC, or PRD LLC, one of its subsidiaries, is a registered investment adviser with the SEC with respect to its evaluated pricing services and is subject to significant regulatory obligations under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, or Investment Advisers Act. None of our other businesses or subsidiaries are registered under the Investment Advisers Act. Compliance with the Investment Advisers Act and other regulatory requirements gives rise to costs and expenses and we cannot assure you that our systems and procedures are fully effective. Our regulators have broad enforcement powers to censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders or prohibit us from engaging in some of our businesses. For example, we have paid a $5 million penalty to the SEC in 2014 and a $3 million penalty to the CFTC in 2015 as a result of enforcement actions brought by these regulators. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extensive examination and surveillance activity. Further, the implementation of new legislation or regulations, or changes in or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies, could require us to incur significant compliance costs and impede our ability to remain competitive and grow our business. In the case of non-compliance or alleged non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to investigations, proceedings and regulatory enforcement actions that may result in substantial penalties, settlements or civil lawsuits, including by customers, for damages which could be significant. Any of these outcomes would adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. In extreme cases, these outcomes could adversely affect our ability to continue to conduct our business.We may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill, other intangible assets or investments.The determination of the value of goodwill and other intangible assets requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2015, we had goodwill of $12.1 billion and net other intangible assets of $10.8 billion relating to our acquisitions, our purchase of trademarks and Internet domain names from various third parties, and the Russell licensing agreement. As of December 31, 2015, we also have $299 million in long-term investments relating to our equity security investment in Cetip, S.A., or Cetip. We recorded a $190 million impairment loss on our investment in Cetip during 2013 primarily due to the devaluation of the Brazilian real. Further, CDS trade execution revenues at Creditex have decreased over the last several years as trading volumes in the global CDS market have declined and CDS trading remains muted due to financial reform implementation and lower volatility in corporate credit markets. As of December 31, 2015, the Creditex customer relationship intangible asset had a remaining net book value of $61 million and will become fully amortized in August 2020. Based on the most recent recoverability test performed, the estimated future undiscounted cash flows exceeded the carrying value of the asset by 8%. We continue to monitor potential triggering events in our CDS trade execution business that could result in further testing for recoverability, and, if it was determined that the carrying value of the asset was not recoverable, an impairment of the asset would then be recorded.25We cannot assure you that we will not experience future events that may result in asset impairments. An impairment of the value of our existing goodwill, other intangible assets and other investments and assets could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results. For additional information on our goodwill, other intangible assets and investments including impairment, refer to notes 5 and 7 to our consolidated financial statements and “- Critical Accounting Policies - Goodwill and Other Identifiable Intangible Assets” in Item 7 "- Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", which are included in this Annual Report.If we are unable to keep up with rapid changes in technology and client preferences, we may not be able to compete effectively.To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality, accessibility and reliability of our electronic platforms and our proprietary and acquired technology. The financial services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, change in use patterns, change in client preferences, frequent product and service introductions and the emergence of new industry standards and practices. These changes could render our existing proprietary technology uncompetitive or obsolete. Further, we use some open-source software in our technology, most often as small components within a larger product or service, to augment algorithms, functionalities or libraries we create, and we may use more open-source software in the future. Open-source code is also contained in some third-party software we rely on. We could be subject to suits by parties claiming breach of the terms of the license for such open-source software. The terms of many open-source licenses are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by U.S. or other courts, and these licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and services.We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology to our clients’ requirements or emerging industry standards in a timely and cost-effective manner. Any failure to remain abreast of industry standards in technology and to be responsive to client preferences could cause our market share to decline and negatively impact our revenues.Our business may be harmed by computer and communications systems failures and delays.We support and maintain many of the systems that comprise our electronic platforms. Our failure to monitor or maintain these systems, or to find replacements for defective components within a system in a timely and cost-effective manner when necessary, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. Our customers rely on us for the delivery of time-sensitive, up-to-date and high-quality financial market data, analytics, and related solutions. Our timely, reliable delivery of high-quality products and services is subject to an array of technical production processes that enable our delivery platforms to leverage an extensive range of content databases. Our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans may prove to be inadequate in the event of a systems failure or cyber-security breach. Our systems, or those of our third party providers, may fail or be shut down or, due to capacity constraints, may operate slowly, causing one or more of the following:•unanticipated disruption in service to our participants; •slower response time and delays in our participants’ trade execution and processing; •failed settlement by participants to whom we provide trade confirmation or clearing services; •incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; •failure to complete the clearing house margin settlement process resulting in significant financial risk; •distribution of inaccurate or untimely market data to participants who rely on this data in their trading activity; and •financial loss. We could experience system failures due to power or telecommunications failures, human error on our part or on the part of our vendors or participants, natural disasters, fire, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses, cyber attacks, intentional acts of vandalism or terrorism and similar events. If any one or more of these situations were to arise, they could result in damage to our business reputation and participant dissatisfaction with our electronic platform, which could prompt participants to trade elsewhere or expose us to litigation or regulatory sanctions. As a consequence, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially.26Our regulated business operations generally require that our trade execution and communications systems be able to handle anticipated present and future peak trading volume. Heavy use of computer systems during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility could cause those systems to operate slowly or even to fail for periods of time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volume will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volume without failure or degradation of performance.Although many of our systems are designed to accommodate additional volume and products and services without redesign or replacement, we will need to continue to make significant investments in additional hardware and software and telecommunications infrastructure to accommodate the increases in volume of order and trading transaction traffic and to provide processing and clearing services to third parties. If we cannot increase the capacity and capabilities of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions and to execute our business strategy, our ability to maintain or expand our businesses would be adversely affected.Our systems and those of our third party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks, hacking and cyber attacks, especially in light of our role in the global financial marketplace, which could result in wrongful use of our information, or which could make our participants reluctant to use our electronic platform.The secure transmission of confidential information and the ability to reliably transact on our electronic platforms and provide financial data services are critical elements of our operations. Some of our products and services involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential client data, including client portfolio information. If anyone gains improper access to our electronic platforms, networks or databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify our confidential information or that of a third party. Our networks and those of our participants, third party service providers and external market infrastructures may be vulnerable to compromise, security technology failure, social engineering, denial of service attacks, or other security failures resulting in loss of data integrity, information disclosure, unavailability, or fraud. Recently, the financial services industry has been targeted for purposes of political protest, activism and fraud. Further, former employees of certain companies in the financial sector have misappropriated trade secrets or stolen source code in the past, and we could be a target for such illegal acts in the future. There also may be system or network disruptions if new or upgraded systems are defective or not tested and installed properly.Although we have not been the victim of cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents that have had a material impact on our operations or financial condition, we have from time to time experienced cyber security events including distributed denial of service attacks, malware infections, phishing, web attacks and other information technology incidents that are typical for a financial services company of our size. Though it did not result in a material impact, we experienced a distributed denial of service attack on our website in October 2014 that temporarily disrupted inbound Internet traffic and was reportable to regulatory authorities. We operate an Information Security program that is designed to prevent, detect, track, and mitigate cyber incidents and that has detected and mitigated such incidents in the past. Although we intend to implement additional industry standard security measures in the future to the extent necessary to maintain the effectiveness of our Information Security program, we cannot assure you that these measures will be sufficient to protect our business against attacks, losses or reduced trading volume in our markets as a result of any security breach, hacking or cyber-attack. Any such attacks could result in reputational damage, cause system failures or delays that could cause us to lose customers, cause us to experience lower current and future trading volumes or incur significant liabilities, or have a negative impact on our competitive position. Additionally, current and future security measures may involve significant costs to purchase and maintain, which could adversely impact our net income.We currently have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness which could restrict our ability to engage in additional transactions or incur additional indebtedness.Following our acquisition of NYSE and Interactive Data, we have a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding on a consolidated basis. As of December 31, 2015, we had $7.3 billion of outstanding debt. This level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including making it more difficult to satisfy our debt obligations, increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and restricting us from pursuing certain business opportunities. As we use our available resources to reduce and refinance our consolidated debt, our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and our ability to pursue future business opportunities may be further restrained. In addition, the terms of our debt facilities contain affirmative and negative covenants, including a leverage ratio test and certain limitations on the incurrence of additional debt or the creation of liens and other matters.Our long-term debt is currently rated by Moody’s Investor Services and Standard & Poor’s. These ratings agencies regularly evaluate us and our credit ratings based on a number of quantitative and qualitative factors, including our financial strength and conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. Our credit ratings remain subject to change at any time, and it is 27possible that a ratings agency may take action to downgrade our credit ratings in the future. In particular, our inability to sustain reduced debt on a consolidated basis may result in a downgrade of our credit ratings. In addition, a significant downgrade of our credit rating could impact the regulatory status of our clearing houses and make parties less willing to do business with our clearing houses and exchanges, and could negatively impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase the cost of any future debt funding we may obtain.Damage to our reputation resulting from our administration of LIBOR could adversely affect our business.Our subsidiary IBA is the administrator for various benchmarks, including LIBOR. IBA's administration of LIBOR is the result of the LIBOR scandal, which was a series of fraudulent actions taken by banks that were submitting false LIBOR rates to profit from trades, or to give the impression that the banks were more creditworthy than they were. Any failures or negative publicity resulting from our administration of LIBOR or other benchmarks could result in a loss of confidence in the administration of these benchmarks and could harm our reputation. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial results.Since we conduct operations in several different countries, including the U.S., U.K., continental Europe and Canada, substantial portions of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, euros and Canadian dollars. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate non-U.S. dollar denominated revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against the other currencies may affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies.The European debt crisis and related European financial restructuring efforts have contributed to instability in global credit markets and resulted in a decline in the value of the pounds sterling and euro relative to the U.S. dollar. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the U.K., continental Europe, the U.S. or other key markets remain uncertain or deteriorate further, the value of the pounds sterling and euro and the global credit markets may further weaken. General financial instability in countries in the European Union, including Greece, could have a contagion effect on the region and contribute to the general instability and uncertainty in the European Union. Events that adversely affect our U.K. and continental European clients and suppliers could in turn have a materially adverse effect on our international business results and our results of operations. For additional information on our foreign currency exchange rate risk, refer to “- Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk” in Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, which are included in this Annual Report.Owning and operating voice broker businesses exposes us to additional risk, and these businesses are largely dependent on their broker-dealer clients.Our voice broker business is primarily transaction-based, and it provides brokerage services to clients primarily in the form of agency transactions, although it also engages in a limited number of matched principal transactions. In agency transactions, customers pay transaction fees for trade execution services in which we connect buyers and sellers who settle their transactions directly. In matched principal transactions (also known as “risk-less principal” transactions), we agree to buy instruments from one customer and sell them to another customer. The amount of the fee generally depends on the spread between the buy and sell price of the security that is brokered. The majority of transactions by Creditex and Creditex Brokerage, which are the subsidiaries that engage in our voice broker business, are agency transactions, and the matched principal transactions accounted for 4.0% of the total transactions for Creditex and Creditex Brokerage for the year ended December 31, 2015. With respect to matched principal transactions, a counterparty to a matched principal transaction may fail to fulfill its obligations, or Creditex or Creditex Brokerage may face liability for an unmatched trade. Declines in trading volumes in credit derivatives would adversely affect the revenues we derive from Creditex. We also face the risk of not being able to collect transaction or processing fees charged to customers for brokerage services and processing services we provide. We may face liability for content contained in our data products and services. We may be subject to claims for breach of contract, defamation, libel, copyright or trademark infringement, fraud or negligence, or based on other theories of liability, in each case relating to the data, articles, commentary, ratings, information or other content we distribute in our financial data services. If such data or other content or information that we distribute has errors, is delayed or has design defects, we could be subject to liability or our reputation could suffer. We could also be subject to claims based upon the content that is accessible from our corporate website or those websites that we own and operate through links to other websites. Use of our products and services as part of the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for significant amounts. Any such claim, even if the outcome were 28to be ultimately favorable to us, could involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation. Such claims and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we license and redistribute data and content from various third parties. Our data and content suppliers may audit our use and our clients' use and payment for data and content and may assert that we or our clients owe additional amounts under the terms of the license agreements or that we or our clients used the data or content in a manner that exceeded the scope of the license agreement. We may incur costs to investigate any such allegations and we may be required to make unexpected payments to these data and content suppliers. A failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, could adversely affect our business.Our business is dependent on proprietary technology and other intellectual property that we own or license from third parties, including trademarks, service marks, trade names, trade secrets, copyrights and patents. We cannot assure you that the steps that we have taken or will take in the future will prevent misappropriation of our proprietary technology or intellectual property. Additionally, we may be unable to detect the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property. Our failure to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property adequately could harm our reputation and affect our ability to compete effectively. Further, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which may require significant financial and managerial resources. As a result, we may choose not to enforce our infringed intellectual property rights, depending on our strategic evaluation and judgment regarding the best use of our resources, the relative strength of our intellectual property portfolio and the recourse available to us.In addition, our competitors, as well as other companies and individuals, may have obtained, and may be expected to obtain in the future, patent rights related to the types of products and services we offer or plan to offer. We cannot assure you that we are or will be aware of all patents that may pose a risk of infringement by our products and services. As a result, we may face allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties which may be costly for us to defend against. If one or more of our products or services is found to infringe patents held by others, we may be required to stop developing or marketing the products or services, obtain licenses to develop and market the products or services from the holders of the patents or redesign the products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing the patents. We also could be required to pay damages if we were found to infringe patents held by others, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We cannot assess the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, whether such licenses would be available or, if available, whether we would be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms. If we were unable to obtain such licenses, we may not be able to redesign our products or services at a reasonable cost to avoid infringement, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.We rely on third party providers and other suppliers for a number of services that are important to our business. An interruption or cessation of an important service, data or content supplied by any third party, or the loss of an exclusive license, could have a material adverse effect on our business.We depend on a number of suppliers, such as online service providers, hosting service and software providers, data processors, software and hardware vendors, banks, local and regional utility providers, and telecommunications companies, for elements of our trading, clearing, data services and other systems. We rely on access to certain data used in our business through licenses with third parties, and we rely on a large international telecommunications company for the provision of hosting services. We also depend on third-party suppliers for data and content, including data received from certain competitors, clients, various government and public record services and financial institutions, used in our products and services. Some of this data is exclusive to particular suppliers and may not be obtained from other suppliers. In addition, our data suppliers could enter into exclusive contracts with our competitors without our knowledge. The general trend toward industry consolidation may increase the risk that these services may not be available to us in the future. If these companies were to discontinue providing services to us for any reason or fail to provide the type of service agreed to, we would likely experience significant disruption to our business and may be subject to litigation by our clients or increased regulatory scrutiny or regulatory fines. Our third party data suppliers perform audits on us from time to time in the ordinary course of business to determine if data we license for redistribution has been properly accounted for in accordance with the terms of the applicable license agreement. As a result of these audits, we may incur additional expenses. Many of our clients also rely on third parties to provide them with systems necessary to access our trading platform. If these companies were to discontinue providing services to our clients for any reason, we may experience a loss of revenue associated with our clients’ inability to transact with our businesses. We hold exclusive licenses to list various index futures and contracts. In the future, litigation or regulatory action may limit the right of owners to grant exclusive licenses for index futures and contracts trading to a single exchange, and our competitors may succeed in providing economically similar products in a manner or 29jurisdiction not otherwise covered by our exclusive license. MiFID II introduced a harmonized approach to the licensing of services relating to commodity derivatives across Europe and the legislation requires open access to any benchmarks (a benchmark is an index or other measure used to determine the value of a financial instrument, for example, LIBOR or the S&P 500) used in Europe. If unlicensed trading of any index product where we hold an exclusive license were permitted, we could lose trading volume for these products which would adversely affect our revenues associated with the license and the related index products.We are subject to significant litigation and liability risks.Many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our participants, involve substantial risks of liability. These risks include, among others, potential liability from disputes over terms of a trade and the claim that a system failure or delay caused monetary loss to a participant or that an unauthorized trade occurred. For example, dissatisfied market participants that have traded on our electronic platform or those on whose behalf such participants have traded, may make claims regarding the quality of trade execution, or allege improperly confirmed or settled trades, abusive trading practices, security and confidentiality breaches, mismanagement or even fraud against us or our participants. In addition, because of the ease and speed with which sizable trades can be executed on our electronic platform, participants can lose substantial amounts by inadvertently entering trade orders or by entering them inaccurately. A large number of significant error trades could result in participant dissatisfaction and a decline in participant willingness to trade in our electronic markets. In addition, we are subject to various legal disputes, some of which we are involved in due to acquisition activity. We could incur significant expenses defending claims, even those without merit, which could adversely affect our financing condition and operating results. An adverse resolution of any lawsuit or claim against us may require us to pay substantial damages or impose restrictions on how we conduct business, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. See note 13 to our consolidated financial statements and related notes, which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report, for a summary of our legal proceedings and claims.We may be at greater risk from terrorism than other companies.Given our prominence in the global securities industry and the location of many of our properties and personnel in U.S. and European financial centers, including lower Manhattan, we may be more likely than other companies to be a direct target of, or an indirect casualty of, attacks by terrorists or terrorist organizations, or other extremist organizations that employ threatening or harassing means to achieve their social or political objectives.It is impossible to predict the likelihood or impact of any terrorist attack on the securities industry generally or on our business. In the event of an attack or a threat of an attack, our security measures and contingency plans may be inadequate to prevent significant disruptions in our business, technology or access to the infrastructure necessary to maintain our business. Damage to our facilities due to terrorist attacks may be significantly in excess of insurance coverage, and we may not be able to insure against some damage at a reasonable price or at all. The threat of terrorist attacks may also negatively affect our ability to attract and retain employees. In addition, terrorist attacks may cause instability or decreased trading in the securities markets, including trading on exchanges. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments.We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from our subsidiaries. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by certain of our subsidiaries to us. If our subsidiaries are unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our stockholders, principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt or repurchase shares of our common stock. Further, we have guaranteed the payment of certain obligations by our subsidiary, NYSE Holdings, LLC. This guarantee may require us to provide substantial funds or assets to creditors of our subsidiaries at a time when we are in need of liquidity to fund our own obligations and may affect our ability to make dividend payments to our stockholders, principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt or repurchase shares of our common stock.Provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware law may delay or deter a change of control of ICE.Our organizational documents contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of, or unsolicited acquisition proposals for, ICE. These provisions make a change of control less likely, which may be contrary to the desires of certain of our stockholders. Many of these provisions are required by relevant regulators in connection with our ownership and operation of U.S. and European equity exchanges. For example, our organizational documents include provisions that generally restrict any person (either alone or together with its related persons) from (i) voting or causing the voting of shares of stock representing more than 10% of our outstanding voting capital stock (including as a result of any agreement by any other persons not to vote shares of stock) or (ii) beneficially owning shares of stock representing more than 20% of the 30outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock. Further, our organizational documents generally limit the ability of stockholders to call special stockholders’ meetings or act by written consent, and generally authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue and fix the rights and preferences of one or more series of preferred stock. In addition, provisions of Delaware law may have a similar effect, such as provisions limiting the ability of certain interested stockholders, as defined under Delaware law, from causing the merger or acquisition of a corporation against the wishes of the board of directors. ITEM 1 (B). UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS