ITEM 1(A). RISK FACTORSThe risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe could materially adversely affect us. Other risks and uncertainties that we do not presently consider to be material or of which we are not presently aware may become important factors that affect us in the future. If any of the risks discussed below actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Accordingly, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as other information contained in or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. Global economic, political and financial market events or conditions may negatively impact our business.Global economic, political and market conditions may impact our business. Adverse macroeconomic conditions, including recessions, inflation, high unemployment, government shutdowns, currency fluctuations, actual or anticipated large-scale defaults or failures or slowdown of global trade could decrease consumer and corporate confidence and reduce consumer, government and corporate spending. If our customers reduce spending, workforce, trading activity or demand for financial data as a result of challenges in the prevailing economic markets, our revenues could decline. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from fees for transactions executed and cleared in our markets. We derived 44%, 42% and 43% of our consolidated revenues, less transaction-based expenses, from our net transaction-based revenues in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. In particular, we derive a significant percentage of our net transaction-based revenues from trading in ICE Brent Crude futures and options contracts, North American natural gas futures and options contracts, sugar futures and options contracts, equity transactions and short-term interest rates contracts, including the Euribor and Short Sterling futures and options contracts. The trading volumes in our markets could decline substantially if our market participants reduce their level of trading activity for any reason, including:•a reduction in the number of market participants that use our platform; •a reduction in trading demand by customers or a decision to curtail or cease hedging or speculative trading;•regulatory or legislative changes impacting our customers and financial markets; •a prolonged decrease in volatility in the financial markets;•heightened capital requirements or mandated reductions in leverage resulting from new regulation; •transactions effected on any of our markets or cleared through our clearing houses being reclassified as a result of regulatory or legal requirements;•defaults by clearing or exchange members or the inability of participants to pay out contractual obligations; •changes to our contract specifications that are not viewed favorably by our market participants; or•reduced access to or availability of capital required to fund trading activities.A reduction in our overall trading volume could render our markets less attractive to market participants as a source of liquidity, which could result in further loss of trading volume and associated transaction-based revenues. A reduction in trading volumes could also result in a corresponding decrease in the demand for our market data, which would further reduce our overall revenue.Further, NYSE’s revenue increases when more companies are seeking access to public markets and stagnation or a decline in the IPO market could have an adverse effect on our revenues. The number of public companies in the U.S. has decreased significantly over the last 20 years. A prolonged government shutdown could negatively impact our business. Our regulated exchanges and clearinghouses are required to obtain regulatory approvals from the CFTC and/or SEC in the ordinary course of business and failure or delay to provide these approvals could adversely affect our business and our ability to introduce new products and services. 19In addition, during a government shutdown, the SEC may not be able to review the registration statements that are seeking to do an initial public offering, which could have a negative impact on our listings business.As of December 31, 2018, we own 100% of MERS, which operates a national electronic database that tracks changes in mortgage servicing and beneficial ownership interests in U.S. residential loans. If there is a continued rise in interest rates or introduction of restrictions or limits on mortgage lending that leads to a reduction in mortgage activity in the U.S., our results could be negatively impacted.The uncertainty surrounding the terms of the U.K.'s exit from the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which a majority of voters approved an exit from the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit. The uncertainty surrounding the terms of Brexit, could negatively impact markets and cause weaker macroeconomic conditions that could continue for the foreseeable future. Since U.K. voters approved Brexit in June 2016, Brexit has created political and economic uncertainty and instability in the global markets (including currency and credit markets), particularly in the U.K. and EU. Political and economic uncertainty has, in the past led to, and the outcome of Brexit could lead to, certain macroeconomic conditions that adversely affect our business. Adverse macroeconomic consequences such as deterioration in economic conditions, volatility in currency exchange rates, legal uncertainty, potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which EU laws to replace or replicate and/or prohibitive laws and regulations may adversely affect both demand for our products and services and our ability to deliver our products and services into the EU. The long term effects of Brexit will depend, in part, on any agreements the U.K. makes or does not make to retain access to EU markets either during a transitional period or more permanently.In November 2018, the EU and the U.K. agreed upon the terms of an agreement which sets out the terms of the U.K.’s withdrawal from the EU and includes a transitional period until December 31, 2020. If the agreement is not ratified by the EU and U.K. before the end of March 2019, then, absent the U.K. withdrawing its notice under Article 50 or members of the EU agreeing to extend the two-year notice period, the U.K. will leave the EU with no agreements in place beyond those temporary arrangements which have or may be put in place by the EU or individual EU Member States, and the U.K. as part of no-deal contingency efforts and those conferred by mutual membership of the World Trade Organization. Given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade and legal implications the U.K. leaving the EU with no agreements in place would have and how such withdrawal would affect us. Impacts could include access to our services by persons located in the EU being prohibited or becoming more expensive, which could negatively impact our profitability. Our businesses and those of many of our clients have been and continue to be subject to increased legislation and regulatory scrutiny, and we face the risk of changes to this regulatory environment and business in the future.We are and will continue to be subject to extensive regulation in many jurisdictions around the world, and in particular in the U.S. and the U.K. where the largest portions of our operations are conducted. We face the risk of significant actions by regulatory and taxing authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses and hold investments that may affect our business, the activity of our market participants, and as a consequence, our results. Among other things, as a result of regulators and tax authorities enforcing existing laws and regulations, we could be censured, fined, prohibited from pursuing certain acquisitions or engaging in some of our business activities, subjected to limitations or conditions on our business activities, including fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory pricing restrictions, also known as FRAND, or subjected to new or substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our business or with respect to our employees, including settlement payments, interest payments and penalty payments. In many cases, our activities may be subject to overlapping and divergent regulation in different jurisdictions.There is also the risk that new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement practices applicable to our businesses or those of our clients could be imposed. This could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively with other institutions that are not affected in the same way or impact our clients’ overall trading volume through our exchanges and demand for our market data and other services. The U.S. government, in particular, has indicated a goal of reforming many aspects of existing financial services regulations. Some areas identified as subject to potential change, amendment or repeal include the Dodd-Frank Act and the authorities of the Federal Reserve and FSOC, however, it is unknown at this time to what extent new legislation will be passed into law or pending or new regulatory proposals will be adopted or modified, or the effect that such passage, adoption or modification will have, positively or negatively, on our industry or on us. There is also increasing public concern regarding data privacy and data protection and many jurisdictions have passed laws in 20this area, such as the European Union General Data Protection Regulation, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number, change frequently and increasingly conflict among the various countries in which we operate, which has resulted in greater compliance risk and cost for us.These developments could impact our profitability in the affected jurisdictions, or even make it uneconomical for us to continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses in such jurisdictions, or could cause us to incur significant costs associated with changing our business practices, restructuring our businesses or moving all or certain of our businesses and our employees to other jurisdictions, including liquidating assets or raising capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs or otherwise adversely affects our stockholders and creditors. For example, the adoption and implementation of position limit rules in the U.S. and the EU could have an impact on our commodities business if comparable trading venues in foreign jurisdictions are not subject to equivalent rules. Position limits became effective in the EU beginning January 2018 and in certain cases the position limits are lower than U.S. equivalent contracts and in other cases position limits are higher than U.S. equivalent contracts. These divergent regulations may cause us to move products from one jurisdiction to another as a result of business risks and competitive challenges and could significantly increase the regulatory compliance costs for our customers, which could have a negative impact on our business.U.S. and EU legal and regulatory developments in response to the global financial crisis, in particular the Dodd-Frank Act, EMIR, MiFID II and the BMR, have significantly altered and propose to further alter the regulatory framework within which we operate and may adversely affect our competitive position and profitability. The enacted and proposed legal and regulatory changes most likely to affect our businesses are: position limit rules in the U.S. and the EU, non-discriminatory access provisions of MiFID II, interoperability and margin rules in EMIR, enhanced regulatory capital liquidity and leverage rules in Basel III and Capital Requirements Directive IV, access rules under the BMR, the non-harmonization of margin requirements, implementation of a financial transaction tax, access to our benchmarks and maintaining our exchanges’ abilities to operate as SROs with related immunity for the discharge of their regulatory functions. As the operator of global businesses, the lack of harmonization in international financial reform efforts could impact our business as our clearing houses and exchanges are subject to regulation in multiple jurisdictions. The Dodd-Frank Act established enhanced regulatory requirements for non-bank financial institutions designated as “systemically important” by the FSOC. ICE Clear Credit has been designated as a systemically important financial market utility by the FSOC and, as a result, is subject to additional oversight by the CFTC.In 2016, the SEC approved a plan to establish a market-wide consolidated audit trail, or CAT, to improve regulators’ ability to monitor trading activity. In 2018, the first phase of implementation went live and required participants to begin reporting to the CAT, with a phased implementation of the provisions of the CAT through 2019. Due to delays in implementation and failure to implement required functionality, there is an increased risk to execution venues (which includes us) of regulatory action by the SEC. In addition to increased risk in connection with our regulatory obligations, implementation of the CAT could result in significant additional expenditures, which may not be reimbursed. Funding of the implementation and operation of the CAT is ultimately expected to be provided by both the execution venues and industry members. To date, however, funding has been provided solely by the execution venues in exchange for promissory notes expected to be repaid if industry member fees are approved by the SEC and are collected to fund the CAT. Until the SEC approves a funding model that shares the cost of the CAT between the execution venues and industry members, the execution venues may continue to incur additional significant costs, and there is a risk such funding model may result in the uncollectibility of the issued promissory notes. As of December 31, 2018, we have accrued approximately $16 million as a receivable in connection with our portion of expenses related to the CAT implementation. We are subject to tax laws, regulations, rulings and audits in multiple U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions that could have a significant impact on our business and lead to additional expenditures for us or our customers. For example, there have been discussions in various jurisdictions around financial transaction or digital service tax frameworks. Implementation of any new or amended taxes or regulations could impact our global operations or trading volumes, if adopted. Other enacted and proposed legal and regulatory changes not discussed above may also adversely affect our competitive position and profitability. See Item 1 “- Business - Regulation” above for additional information regarding the current and proposed laws and regulations that impact our business, including risks to our business associated with these laws and regulations. 21Our business is subject to the impact of financial markets volatility, including the prices and interest rates underlying our derivative products, due to conditions that are beyond our control.Trading volume in our markets and products is largely driven by the degree of volatility - the magnitude and frequency of fluctuations - in prices and levels of the underlying commodities, securities, indices, financial benchmarks or other instruments. Volatility increases the need to hedge price risk and creates opportunities for investment and speculative or arbitrage trading. Were there to be a sustained period of stability in the prices or levels of the underlying commodities, securities, indices, benchmarks or other instruments of our products, we could experience lower trading volumes, slower growth or declines in revenues.Factors that are particularly likely to affect price and interest rate levels and volatility, and thus trading volumes, include:•global and domestic economic, political and market conditions; •concerns over inflation, deflation, legislative and regulatory changes, government fiscal and monetary policy - including actions by the Federal Reserve and other foreign monetary units governing bodies, and investor and consumer confidence levels;•weather conditions including hurricanes and other significant events, natural and unnatural disasters like large oil spills that impact the production of commodities and, in the case of energy commodities, production, refining and distribution facilities for oil and natural gas; •war, acts of terrorism and any unforeseen market closures or disruptions in trading; •political developments impacting international trade, including continued uncertainty surrounding Brexit, trade disputes and increased tariffs, particularly between the U.S. and China;•real and perceived changes in the supply and demand of commodities underlying our products, particularly energy and agricultural products, including changes as a result of technological improvements or the development of alternative energy sources; and•credit quality of market participants, the availability of capital and the levels of assets under management. Any one or more of these factors, which are beyond our control, may reduce trading activity, which could make our markets less attractive as a source of liquidity, and in turn could further discourage existing and potential market participants and thus accelerate a decline in the level of trading activity and potentially related services such as data or clearing. Further, lower market volatility could also result in more exchanges competing for trading volumes to maintain their growth. If any of these unfavorable conditions were to persist over a lengthy period of time and trading volumes were to decline substantially and for a long enough period, the critical mass of transaction volume necessary to support viable markets could be jeopardized. Because our cost structure is largely fixed, if demand for our current products and services decline for any reason, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure to counteract the associated decline in revenues, which would cause our net income to decline.Systems failures in the derivatives and securities trading industry could negatively impact us.High-profile system failures in the derivatives and securities trading industry could negatively impact our business and result in a loss of confidence in our technology and our markets, regulatory investigations, fines and penalties and business activity slowdown or interruptions. Further, regulators have imposed requirements for trading platforms that have been costly for us to implement and could result in a decrease in demand for some of our services. In particular, the SEC’s Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity, or Regulation SCI, and the CFTC’s system safeguards regulations subject portions of our securities and derivatives trading platforms and other technological systems related to our clearing houses, trade repositories and the U.S. SEF to more extensive regulation and oversight. Ensuring our compliance with the requirements of Regulation SCI and the CFTC’s system safeguards regulations requires significant implementation costs as well as increased ongoing administrative expenses and burdens. In addition, any expansion of the ICE systems that are determined to be in scope for Regulation SCI could result in significant additional expenditures.Our systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks, hacking and other cyber security risks, especially in light of our role in the global financial marketplace, which could result in wrongful manipulation, disclosure or use of our information or that of a third party, or which could make our participants unable or reluctant to use our electronic platform.The secure transmission of confidential information and the ability to reliably transact on our electronic platforms and provide financial data services are critical elements of our operations. Some of our products and services involve the 22storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential client data, including client portfolio information. If anyone gains improper access to our electronic platforms, networks or databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify our confidential information or that of a third party. Breaches of our cybersecurity measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our clients or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation, regulatory action and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. Our networks and those of our participants, third-party service providers and external market infrastructures may be vulnerable to compromise, unauthorized access, security technology failure, computer viruses, social engineering, denial of service attacks, terrorism, “ransom” attacks, firewall or encryption failures or other security problems resulting in loss of data integrity, information disclosure, unavailability or fraud. The financial services industry has been targeted for purposes of political protest, activism and financial gain and our role in the global marketplace places us at greater risk than other public companies for cyber-attack and other information security threats. Further, former employees of certain companies in the financial sector have misappropriated trade secrets or stolen source code in the past, and we could be a target for such illegal acts in the future. There also may be system or network disruptions if new or upgraded systems are defective or not tested and installed properly.Although we have not been the victim of cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents that have had a material impact on our operations or financial condition, we have from time to time experienced cybersecurity events including distributed denial of service attacks, malware infections, phishing, web attacks and other information technology incidents that are typical for a financial services company of our size. For example, we detected and responded to the exploitation of a legacy web server in September 2018. While our controls prevented the attack from establishing persistent network access or expanding laterally into additional systems, we did invoke our incident response procedures to eliminate the vector of attack and forensically confirm the limited extent of any data that was exposed. Further, we exercised our third-party incident response arrangements to independently validate our findings. While we operate an Information Security program that is designed to prevent, detect, track and mitigate cyber incidents and that has detected and mitigated such incidents in the past, we cannot assure you that these measures will be sufficient to protect our business against attacks, losses or reduced trading volume in our markets as a result of any security breach, hacking or cyber-attack. Any such attacks could result in reputational damage, cause system failures or delays that could cause us to lose customers, cause us to experience lower current and future trading volumes or incur significant liabilities or have a negative impact on our competitive position. In addition, given the increasing complexity and sophistication of the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or disable or degrade systems, a cyber-attack could occur and persist for an extended period of time before being detected, and we may not anticipate these acts or respond adequately or timely. The extent of a particular cyber incident and the steps that we may need to take to investigate the incident may not be immediately clear, and it may take a significant amount of time before such investigation can be completed and full and reliable information about the incident is known. While such an investigation is ongoing, we may not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, which may compound damages before the incident is discovered or remediated. Additionally, as threats continue to evolve and increase, and as the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use, and privacy becomes increasingly rigorous, we may be required to devote significant additional resources to modify and enhance our security controls and to identify and remediate any security vulnerabilities, which could adversely impact our net income. Owning clearing houses exposes us to risks, including risks related to defaults by clearing members, risks related to investing margin and guaranty funds and the cost of operating the clearing houses.There are risks inherent in operating clearing houses, including exposure to the market and counterparty risk of clearing members, market liquidity risks, defaults by clearing members and risks associated with custody and investing margin or guaranty fund assets provided by clearing members to our clearing houses, which could subject our business to substantial losses. For example, clearing members have transferred an aggregate amount of cash in ICE Clear Europe relating to margin and guaranty funds of $30.9 billion as of December 31, 2018 and a total of $64.0 billion for all of our clearing houses as of December 31, 2018. ICE Clear Europe and ICE Clear U.S. use third-party investment managers for investment of cash assets and may add or change the investment managers from time to time. To the extent available, ICE Clear Credit holds the U.S. dollar cash and U.S. Treasuries that clearing members transfer to satisfy their original margin and guaranty fund requirements at its account at the Federal Reserve. With respect to other clearing member cash posted, ICE Clear Credit currently self-manages and uses external investment managers to invest such cash margin and guaranty fund deposits.We have an obligation to return margin payments and guaranty fund contributions to clearing members to the extent that the relevant member’s risk based on its open contracts to the clearing house is reduced. If a number of clearing members 23substantially reduce their open interest or default, the concentration of risks within our clearing houses will be spread among a smaller pool of clearing members, which would make it more difficult to absorb and manage risk in the event of a further clearing member’s default. Although our clearing houses have policies and procedures to help ensure that clearing members can satisfy their obligations, such policies and procedures may not succeed in preventing losses after a member's or counterparty’s default. In addition, although we believe that we have carefully analyzed the process for setting margins and our financial safeguards, it is a complex process and there is no guarantee that our procedures will adequately protect us from the risks of clearing these products. We cannot assure you that these measures and safeguards will be sufficient to protect us from a default or that we will not be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default. We have contributed our own capital to the front of the guaranty fund of the clearing houses that could be used in the event of a default. Furthermore, the default of any one of the clearing members could subject our business to substantial losses and cause our customers to lose confidence in the guaranty of our clearing houses.A decline in the value of securities held as margin or guaranty fund contributions by our clearing houses or default by a sovereign government issuer could pose additional risks of default by clearing members. Our clearing houses hold a substantial amount of assets as margin or guaranty fund contributions, which comprise U.S. and other sovereign treasury securities. As of December 31, 2018, our clearing houses held $54.3 billion of non-cash margin or guaranty fund contributions in U.S. and other sovereign treasury securities: $41.5 billion of this amount was comprised of U.S. Treasury securities, $1.8 billion of French Treasury securities, $1.7 billion of German Treasury securities, $1.2 billion of Italian Treasury securities, $1.4 billion of U.K. Treasury securities, and $6.6 billion of other European, Japanese and Tri-Party Treasury securities. Sovereign treasury securities have historically been viewed as one of the safest and most liquid securities for clearing houses to hold due to the perceived credit worthiness of major governments. However, the markets for such securities have experienced significant volatility during the past decade and as of late due to on-going financial challenges in some of the major European countries and the U.S. government’s negotiations regarding taxation, spending cuts and raising the debt ceiling, which is the maximum amount of debt that the U.S. government can legally incur. In addition, if there is a collapse of the euro, our clearing houses would face significant expenses in changing their systems and such an event could cause a credit contraction and major swings in asset prices and exchange rates. To mitigate this risk, our clearing houses currently apply a discount or “haircut” to the market values for all sovereign securities held as margin or guaranty fund contributions; however, market conditions could change more quickly than we adjust the amount of the haircuts and the haircuts could be insufficient in the event of a sudden market event.Notwithstanding the current intraday margin and valuation checks conducted by our clearing houses and our policies and practices to limit exposures, our clearing houses will need to continue to monitor the volatility and value of sovereign treasury securities. If the value of these securities declines significantly, our clearing houses will need to collect additional margin or guaranty fund contributions from their clearing members, which may be difficult for the members to supply in a time of financial stress affected by an actual or threatened default by a sovereign government. In addition, our clearing houses may be required to impose a more significant discount on the value of sovereign treasury securities posted as margin or guaranty fund contributions if there is uncertainty regarding the future value of these securities, which would trigger the need for additional margin or guaranty fund contributions by the clearing members. If a clearing member cannot supply the additional margin or guaranty fund contributions, which may include cash in a currency acceptable to the clearing house, the clearing house would deem the clearing member in default. If any clearing members default as a result of the reduction in the value of margin or guaranty fund contributions, our clearing houses and trading business could suffer substantial losses as a result of the loss of any capital that has been contributed to the clearing house’s guaranty funds and a loss of confidence by clearing members in the clearing house, resulting in a reduction in volumes of future cleared transactions.Further, our clearing houses invest large sums through reverse repo transactions in connection with their clearing operations and hold sovereign securities as security in connection with such investment transactions. In the event that a reverse repo counterparty defaults, the value of the sovereign securities we hold as collateral might not be sufficient to cover our losses. Our clearing houses may also make demand deposits with banks that are secured only to the value of Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, insurance or other national deposit guarantee schemes, which is small, and therefore, the deposits may in significant part be lost in the event one of these banks becomes insolvent. Owning and operating equity and options exchanges exposes us to additional risks, including the regulatory responsibilities to which these businesses are subject.24Owning and operating equity and options exchanges for which the revenues are primarily derived from trading activity, market data and listing fees, exposes us to additional risks. Adverse economic conditions and regulatory changes similar to those discussed above, including changes to the number of exchanges that are permitted to conduct closing auctions, could result in decreased trading volume on our exchanges, discourage market participants from listing on our equity and options exchanges or cause them to forgo new offerings. Any of these could reduce our revenues, including market data revenue.Our exchanges are operated as for-profit businesses but have certain regulatory responsibilities that must be fulfilled. Specifically, our exchanges are responsible for enforcing listed company compliance with applicable listing standards, overseeing regulatory policy determinations, rule interpretation and regulation-related rule development and conducting trading reviews. Any failure by one of our exchanges with self-regulatory responsibility to comply with, and enforce compliance by their members, with exchange rules and securities laws could significantly harm our reputation, prompt regulatory scrutiny, result in the payment of fines or penalties and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We must allocate significant resources to fulfill our self-regulatory responsibilities. The for-profit exchanges’ goal of maximizing stockholder value might contradict the exchanges’ self-regulatory responsibilities. The listing of our common stock on the NYSE could potentially create a conflict between the exchange’s regulatory responsibilities to vigorously oversee the listing and trading of securities, on the one hand, and our commercial and economic interest, on the other hand. While we have structural protections to minimize these potential conflicts, we cannot be sure that such measures will be successful.Further, changes in the rules and operations of our securities markets must be reviewed and approved by the SEC. Approval of such changes by the SEC cannot be guaranteed and the SEC could delay either the approval process or the initiation of the public comment process. Any denial or delay in approving changes could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our compliance and risk management methods, as well as our fulfillment of our regulatory obligations, might not be effective, which could lead to enforcement actions by our regulators.Our ability to comply with complex and changing laws and rules is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, audit and reporting systems that can quickly adapt and respond, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other risk management personnel. Regulators periodically review our exchanges’ ability to self-regulate and our compliance with a variety of laws and regulations including self-regulatory standards. In particular, certain of our businesses associated with the NYSE Group are subject to public notice procedures prior to making changes in operations, policies and procedures. If we fail to comply with any of these obligations, regulators could take a variety of actions that could impair our ability to conduct our business.Our acquisitions expose us to new regulatory requirements. For example, as a result of our acquisitions of Interactive Data and Securities Evaluations, we operate two SEC-registered investment advisers. Investment advisers are subject to significant regulatory obligations under the Investment Advisers Act. Prior to these acquisitions, none of our businesses were registered under the Investment Advisers Act. Compliance with the Investment Advisers Act and other regulatory requirements gives rise to costs and expenses that may be material. In addition, our acquisition of the BondPoint ATS in January 2018 exposes us to increased exposure to regulatory scrutiny from the SEC and FINRA and our acquisition of TMC Bonds in July 2018 exposes us to regulatory scrutiny from FINRA. Our regulators have broad enforcement powers to censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders or prohibit us from engaging in some of our businesses. We will continue to face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extensive examination and surveillance activity. Any such matters may result in material adverse consequences to our financial condition, operating results or ability to conduct our business, including adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, restrictions on our business activities or other relief. Our involvement in any such matters, even if the matters are ultimately determined in our favor, could also cause significant harm to our reputation and divert management attention from the operation of our business. Further, any settlement, consent order or adverse judgment in connection with any formal or informal proceeding or investigation by government or regulatory agencies may result in additional litigation, investigations or proceedings as other litigants and government or regulatory agencies begin independent reviews of the same businesses or activities. Finally, the implementation of new legislation or regulations, or changes in or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies, could require us to incur significant compliance costs and impede our ability to remain competitive and grow our business.25We face intense competition.We face intense competition in all aspects of our business and our competitors, both domestic and international, are numerous. We currently compete with:•regulated, diversified futures exchanges globally that offer trading in a variety of asset classes similar to those offered by us, such as energy, agriculture, equity and equity index, credit, and interest rate derivatives markets and foreign exchange; •exchanges offering listing and trading of cash equities, ETFs, closed-end funds and other structured products similar to those offered by us;•market data and information vendors;•interdealer brokers active in the global credit derivatives markets; •existing and newly formed electronic trading platforms, service providers and other exchanges; •other clearing houses; and•consortiums of our customers, members or market participants that may pool their trading activity to establish new exchanges, trading platforms or clearing facilities. Trends towards the globalization of capital markets have resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in markets and increased competition among markets in different geographical areas. Competition in the market for derivatives trading and clearing and in the market for cash equity listings, trading and execution have intensified as a result of consolidation, as the markets become more global in connection with the increase in electronic trading platforms and the desire by existing exchanges to diversify their product offerings. Finally, many of our competitors are our largest customers or are owned by our customers and may prioritize their internalization and ATS businesses ahead of their exchange-based market making business.We also face pricing competition in many areas of our business. A decline in our fees due to competitive pressure, the inability to successfully launch new products or the loss of customers due to competition could lower our revenues, which would adversely affect our profitability. For example, ICE Data Services’ business has benefited from a high renewal rate in its subscription-based business, but we cannot assure you that this will continue. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to expand our product offerings, modify the pricing for our products or retain our current customers or attract new customers. If we are not able to compete successfully, our business could be materially impacted, including our ability to remain as an operating entity.We may have difficulty executing our growth strategy and maintaining our growth effectively.We have achieved a tremendous amount of growth since becoming a public company in 2005. Our growth is highly dependent on customer demand for our core products and services, favorable economic conditions and our ability to invest in our personnel, facilities, infrastructure and financial and management systems and controls. Adverse economic conditions could reduce customer demand for our products and services, which may place a significant strain on our management and resources and could force us to defer existing or future planned opportunities. We regularly evaluate our existing operations, service capacity and business efficiencies and, as a result of such evaluations, we may undertake strategic initiatives outside of and within our businesses. In addition, we may not be successful in executing on our strategies to support our growth organically or through acquisitions, other investments or strategic alliances. Failure to evolve our benchmarks and indices in a manner that maintains the relevance of the benchmark or index, damage to our reputation resulting from our administration of LIBOR or other benchmarks and indices and the potential replacement of LIBOR could adversely affect our business.We operate multiple global benchmark products and indices across our asset classes and a significant portion of our volume is based on these products. To ensure continued trading in our benchmark products and indices, we must be able to demonstrate that our products are not readily subject to manipulation and we must continue to evolve our products to maintain their relevance. Our subsidiary, IBA, is the administrator for various benchmarks, including LIBOR. IBA’s administration of LIBOR is the result of the LIBOR scandal, which was a series of fraudulent actions taken by banks that were submitting false LIBOR rates to profit from trades, or to give the impression that the banks were more creditworthy than they were. Any failures, negative publicity or lawsuits resulting from our administration of LIBOR or other benchmarks could result in a loss of confidence in the administration of these benchmarks and could harm our business and our reputation. 26In January 2019, we were named as a defendant in two virtually identical proposed class action lawsuits regarding the administration of LIBOR that allege that we and 18 multinational banks engaged in a conspiracy to set the LIBOR benchmark at artificially low levels. Also, in July 2017, the FCA announced the desire to phase out the use of LIBOR by the end of 2021. There is currently no definitive information regarding the future utilization of LIBOR or of any particular replacement rate. The Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of large U.S. financial institutions, announced replacement of U.S. dollar LIBOR with a new index calculated by short-term repurchase agreements, backed by U.S. Treasury securities called the SOFR. The first publication of SOFR was released in April 2018. Whether or not SOFR attains market traction as a LIBOR replacement tool remains in question and the future of LIBOR at this time is uncertain. As a result, it is not possible to predict the effect of any changes, establishment of alternative references rates or other reforms to LIBOR that may be enacted in the U.K. or elsewhere. The elimination of LIBOR or any other changes or reforms to the determination or supervision of LIBOR could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may not be successful in offering new products or technologies or in identifying opportunities.We intend to launch new products and services and continue to explore and pursue other opportunities to strengthen our business and grow our company. We may spend substantial time and money developing new product offerings or improving current product offerings. If these offerings are not successful, we may miss a potential market opportunity and not be able to recover the costs of such initiatives. Obtaining any required regulatory approval associated with these offerings may also result in delays or restrictions on our ability to benefit fully from these offerings. Further, we may seek to enter into or increase our presence in markets that already possess established competitors who may enjoy the protection of high barriers to entry. Introducing or maintaining our offerings in certain countries may also be subject to a number of other risks, including currency exchange rate risk, difficulties enforcing agreements or collecting receivables, longer payment cycles, compliance with the laws or regulations of these countries, and political and regulatory uncertainties.In addition, in light of consolidation in the exchange, data services and clearing sectors and competition for opportunities, we may be unable to identify strategic opportunities or we may be unable to negotiate or finance any future acquisition successfully. Our competitors could merge, making it more difficult for us to find appropriate entities to acquire or merge with and making it more difficult to compete in our industry due to the increased resources of our merged competitors. Also, offering new products and pursuing acquisitions requires substantial time and attention of our management team, which could prevent them from successfully overseeing other initiatives that are necessary for our success.We have made substantial progress toward developing and deploying new technology platforms to improve our equity exchange business and data services business. We may experience disruptions or encounter unexpected challenges in deploying these new systems. Further, the costs to complete the remaining work may exceed our current expectations. Any significant cost increases or disruptions to product quality, sales effectiveness or client service or to our other business operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.If we are unable to keep up with rapid changes in technology and client preferences, we may not be able to compete effectively.To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality, accessibility and reliability of our electronic platforms and our proprietary and acquired technology. The financial services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, change in use patterns, change in client preferences, frequent product and service introductions and the emergence of new industry standards and practices. These changes could render our existing proprietary technology uncompetitive or obsolete. We are in the process of implementing a new trading technology system at NYSE and if there are trading disruptions or if the new system has inadequate performance, we could suffer material losses, incur reputational damage or be subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny. Further, we use some open-source software in our technology, most often as small components within a larger product or service, to augment algorithms, functionalities or libraries we create, and we may use more open-source software in the future. Open-source code is also contained in some third-party software we rely on. We could be subject to suits by parties claiming breach of the terms of the license for such open-source software. The terms of many open-source licenses are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by U.S. or other courts, and these licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and services.We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology to our clients’ requirements or emerging industry standards in a timely and cost-effective manner. Any failure to remain abreast 27of industry standards in technology and to be responsive to client preferences could cause our market share to decline and negatively impact our results.Our business may be harmed by computer and communication systems failures and delays.Our business depends on the integrity, reliability and security of our infrastructure which is highly dependent on our computer and communication systems. We support and maintain many of the systems that comprise our electronic platforms and our failure to monitor or maintain these systems, or to find replacements for defective components within a system in a timely and cost-effective manner when necessary, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. Our customers rely on us for the delivery of time-sensitive, up-to-date and high-quality financial market data, analytics and related solutions. Our timely, reliable delivery of high-quality products and services is subject to an array of technical production processes that enable our delivery platforms to leverage an extensive range of content databases. Our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans may prove to be inadequate in the event of a systems failure or cybersecurity breach. Our systems, or those of our third-party providers, may fail or be shut down or, due to capacity constraints, may operate slowly, causing one or more of the following:•unanticipated disruption in service to our participants; •slower response time and delays in our participants’ trade execution and processing; •failed settlement by participants to whom we provide trade confirmation or clearing services; •incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; •failure to complete the clearing house margin settlement process resulting in significant financial risk; •distribution of inaccurate or untimely market data to participants who rely on this data in their trading activity; and •financial loss to us or those who depend on our systems and data. We could experience system failures due to power or telecommunications failures, human error on our part or on the part of our vendors or participants, natural disasters, fire, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, intentional acts of vandalism or terrorism and similar events. If any one or more of these situations were to arise, they could result in damage to our business reputation and participant dissatisfaction with our electronic platform, which could prompt participants to trade elsewhere or expose us to litigation or regulatory sanctions. As a consequence, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer materially.Our regulated business operations generally require that our trade execution and communications systems be able to handle anticipated present and future peak trading volume. Heavy use of computer systems during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility could cause those systems to operate slowly or even to fail for periods of time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volume will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volume without failure or degradation of performance.Although many of our systems are designed to accommodate additional volume and products and services without redesign or replacement, we will need to continue to make significant investments in additional hardware and software and telecommunications infrastructure to accommodate the increases in volume of order and trading transaction traffic and to provide processing and clearing services to third parties. If we cannot increase the capacity and capabilities of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions and to execute our business strategy, our ability to maintain or expand our businesses could be adversely affected.We currently have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial condition and operations and restrict our ability to engage in additional transactions or satisfy our debt service obligations.As of December 31, 2018, we had $7.4 billion of outstanding debt. This level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including making it more difficult to satisfy our debt service obligations, increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and restricting us from pursuing certain business opportunities. As we use our available resources to reduce and refinance our consolidated debt, our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and our ability to pursue future business opportunities may be further restrained. In addition, the terms of our debt facilities contain affirmative and negative covenants, including a leverage ratio test and certain limitations on the incurrence of additional debt or the creation of 28liens and other matters. Further, a portion of our outstanding debt has been in commercial paper, which is subject to interest rate changes. Rising interest rates will result in an increase in our interest expense. Our long-term and short-term debt is currently rated by Moody’s Investor Services and Standard & Poor’s. These ratings agencies regularly evaluate us and our credit ratings based on a number of quantitative and qualitative factors, including our financial strength and conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. Our credit ratings remain subject to change at any time, and it is possible that a ratings agency may take action to downgrade our credit ratings in the future. In particular, our inability to sustain reduced debt on a consolidated basis may result in a downgrade of our credit ratings. A significant downgrade of our credit ratings could impact customers’ willingness to use our clearing houses, make parties less willing to do business with us, and could negatively impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase the cost of our commercial paper and any future debt funding we may obtain. We may fail to complete or realize the anticipated cost savings, growth opportunities and synergies and other benefits anticipated from our recent acquisitions and future acquisitions, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock.We have completed many acquisitions and plan to continue to pursue acquisitions and joint ventures. The success of our acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate these businesses into our existing operations and realize anticipated cost savings, revenue synergies and growth opportunities. We generally set aggressive timelines for realizing savings, which assumes we successfully undertake a variety of actions (including, but not limited to, integrating technology, eliminating redundancies and effecting organizational restructurings) that are themselves subject to a variety of risks and may be subject to regulatory approvals that we do not control. The process of integrating acquired companies is time consuming and could disrupt each company’s ongoing businesses, produce unforeseen regulatory and operating difficulties (including inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect relationships with market participants, regulators and others), require substantial resources and expenditures and divert the attention of management from the ongoing operation of the business. There is a risk, however, that we may not integrate these acquired companies in a manner that permits our expected cost savings and revenue synergies to be fully realized in the time periods expected, or at all. In addition, a variety of factors, including but not limited to regulatory conditions, governmental competition approvals, currency fluctuations and difficulty integrating technology platforms, may adversely affect our ability to complete our acquisitions or realize our anticipated cost savings and synergies. We may also not realize anticipated growth opportunities and other benefits from strategic investments or strategic joint ventures or alliances that we have entered into or may enter into for a number of reasons, including regulatory or government approvals or changes, global market changes, contractual obligations, competing products and, in some instances, our lack of or limited control over the management of the business. Further, strategic initiatives that have historically been successful may not continue to be successful due to competitive threats, changing market conditions or the inability for the parties to extend the relationship into the future.As a result of any future acquisition, we may issue additional shares of our common stock that dilute our stockholders’ ownership interest, expend cash, incur debt, assume actual and contingent liabilities, inherit existing or pending litigation or create additional expenses related to amortizing intangible assets. Further, we cannot assure you that any such financing or equity investments will be available with terms that will be favorable to us, or available at all.Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial results.Since we conduct operations in several different countries, including the U.S., U.K., EU and Canada, substantial portions of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, euros and Canadian dollars. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate non-U.S. dollar denominated revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against the other currencies may affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies.External events such as Brexit and the negotiations regarding the terms thereof, the passage of U.S. taxation reform legislation and recent actions of the U.S. administration under President Donald Trump each have caused, and may continue to cause, significant volatility in currency exchange rates, especially among the U.S. dollar, the British pound sterling and the euro. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the U.K., EU, the U.S. or other 29key markets remain uncertain or deteriorate further, the value of the pound sterling and euro and the global credit markets may further weaken. General financial instability in countries in the EU could have a contagion effect on the region and contribute to the general instability and uncertainty in the EU. Events that adversely affect our U.K. and EU clients and suppliers could in turn have a materially adverse effect on our international business results and our operating results. For additional information on our foreign currency exchange rate risk, refer to “- Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk” in Item 7A “- Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, which is included in this Annual Report.”We may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill, other intangible assets or investments.The determination of the value of goodwill and other intangible assets requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2018, we had goodwill of $13.1 billion and net other intangible assets of $10.5 billion relating to our acquisitions and our purchase of trademarks and Internet domain names from various third parties. Our equity investments, including our investments in Euroclear and Coinbase Global, Inc., among others, are now subject to valuation under ASU 2016-01. In accordance with ASU 2016-01, we will only adjust the fair value of these investments if and when there is an observable price change in an orderly transaction of a similar or identical investment or indication of impairment, and any change in the fair value will be recognized in net income. We cannot assure you that we will not experience future events that may result in asset impairments. An impairment of the value of our existing goodwill, other intangible assets and other investments and assets could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results. For additional information on our goodwill, other intangible assets and investments, refer to Notes 3, 4 and 8 to our consolidated financial statements and “- Critical Accounting Policies - Goodwill and Other Identifiable Intangible Assets” in Item 7 “- Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which are included in this Annual Report. We may face liability for content contained in our data products and services. We may be subject to claims for breach of contract, defamation, libel, copyright or trademark infringement, fraud or negligence or based on other theories of liability, in each case relating to the data, articles, commentary, ratings, information or other content we distribute in our financial data services. If such data or other content or information that we distribute has errors, is delayed or has design defects, we could be subject to liability or our reputation could suffer. We could also be subject to claims based upon the content that is accessible from our corporate website or those websites that we own and operate through links to other websites. Use of our products and services as part of the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for significant amounts. Any such claim, even if the outcome were ultimately favorable to us, could involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources. Such claims and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and a negative impact on our reputation. In addition, we license and redistribute data and content from various third parties and the terms of these licenses change frequently. Our third-party data and content suppliers may audit our use of and our clients’ use of and payment for data and content from time to time in the ordinary course of business, including audits currently underway. Such third-party data and content suppliers may assert that we or our clients owe additional amounts under the terms of the applicable license agreements, that we inappropriately distributed the third-party data or that we or our clients used the data or content in a manner that exceeded the scope of the applicable license agreement or without a license agreement. We have and expect to continue to spend and allocate resources to develop and acquire the use of technology and other intellectual property rights to manage these risks and track third-party data usage, but we cannot be assured that we will not incur liability. We may incur costs to investigate any allegations and may be required to pay damages to or make unexpected settlement payments to these data and content suppliers and these costs and payments could be material. A failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, could adversely affect our business.Our business is dependent on proprietary technology and other intellectual property that we own or license from third parties, including trademarks, service marks, trade names, trade secrets, copyrights and patents. We cannot assure you 30that the steps that we have taken or will take in the future will prevent misappropriation of our proprietary technology or intellectual property. Additionally, we may be unable to detect the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property could harm our reputation and affect our ability to compete effectively. Further, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which may require significant financial and managerial resources. As a result, we may choose not to enforce our infringed intellectual property rights, depending on our strategic evaluation and judgment regarding the best use of our resources, the relative strength of our intellectual property portfolio and the recourse available to us.In addition, our competitors, as well as other companies and individuals, may have obtained, and may be expected to obtain in the future, patent and intellectual property rights related to the types of products and services we offer or plan to offer. We cannot assure you that we are or will be aware of all patents and intellectual property rights that may pose a risk of infringement by our products and services. As a result, we may face allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties which may be costly for us to defend against. If one or more of our products or services is found to infringe patents and intellectual property rights held by others, we may be subject to lawsuits or required to stop developing or marketing the products or services, obtain licenses to develop and market the products or services from the holders of the patents and intellectual property or redesign the products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing the patents. We also could be required to pay damages if we were found to infringe patents held by others, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We cannot assess the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, whether such licenses would be available or, if available, whether we would be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms. If we were unable to obtain such licenses, we may not be able to redesign our products or services at a reasonable cost to avoid infringement, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.Regulatory changes or court rulings may have an adverse impact on our ability to derive revenue from market data and connectivity fees.Regulatory developments or court rulings in the U.S. could reduce the amount of revenue that we obtain from market data and connectivity fees. With respect to our U.S. equities and equity options exchanges, our ability to assess fees for market data products and certain connectivity fees are subject to review by the SEC. There continues to be opposing industry viewpoints and litigation as to the extent that our U.S. equities and equity options exchanges should be able to charge for market data and market access, and the manner in which we set such exchange fees could be reassessed. In October 2018, the SEC unanimously issued an opinion setting aside certain market data fees imposed by NYSE Arca, Inc. and Nasdaq Stock Market LLC which were challenged by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, or SIFMA, finding that the exchanges had not met their statutory obligation to demonstrate that the fees were consistent with the Exchange Act (i.e., that these fees are fair and reasonable and not unreasonably discriminatory). Simultaneously the SEC remanded over 400 market data fee and other filings back to the exchanges and the national market system plans for consideration under the standards set out in the SIFMA order and an earlier order issued by the SEC relating to a separate litigation matter. If new constraints are placed on our ability to charge for market data, it could have a negative impact on our revenues. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any regulatory or other changes will take effect or their impact on our business. A determination by the SEC or a court, for example, that the SEC must link market data fees to marginal costs, take a more active role in the market data rate-setting process, or reduce the current levels of market data fees, could have an adverse effect on our market data revenues. Separately, our European exchanges are currently authorized to sell trade information on a non-discriminatory basis at a reasonable cost. This regulatory position could be modified or interpreted by the European Commission or future European court decisions in a manner that could have an adverse effect on our European market data revenues.We rely on third-party providers and other suppliers for a number of services that are important to our business. An interruption or cessation of an important service, data or content supplied by any third party, or the loss of an exclusive license, could have a material adverse effect on our business.We depend on a number of suppliers, such as online service providers, hosting service and software providers, data processors, software and hardware vendors, banks, local and regional utility providers, and telecommunications companies for elements of our trading, clearing, data services and other systems. We rely on access to certain data used in our business through licenses with third parties, and we rely on a large international telecommunications company for 31the provision of hosting services. We also depend on third-party suppliers for data and content, including data received from certain competitors, clients, various government and public record services and financial institutions, used in our products and services. Some of this data is exclusive to particular suppliers and may not be obtained from other suppliers. In addition, our data suppliers could enter into exclusive contracts with our competitors without our knowledge. The general trend toward industry consolidation may increase the risk that these services may not be available to us in the future. If these companies were to discontinue providing services to us for any reason or fail to provide the type of service agreed to, we would likely experience significant disruption to our business and may be subject to litigation by our clients or increased regulatory scrutiny or regulatory fines. Our third-party data suppliers perform audits on us from time to time in the ordinary course of business to determine if data we license for redistribution has been properly accounted for in accordance with the terms of the applicable license agreement. As a result of these audits, we may incur additional expenses. Many of our clients also rely on third parties to provide them with systems necessary to access our trading platform. If these companies were to discontinue providing services to our clients for any reason, we may experience a loss of revenue associated with our clients’ inability to transact with our businesses. We hold exclusive licenses to list various index futures and contracts. In the future, litigation or regulatory action may limit the right of owners to grant exclusive licenses for index futures and contracts trading to a single exchange, and our competitors may succeed in providing economically similar products in a manner or jurisdiction not otherwise covered by our exclusive license. MiFID II introduced a harmonized approach to the licensing of services relating to commodity derivatives across Europe and the legislation requires open access to any benchmarks (a benchmark is an index or other measure used to determine the value of a financial instrument, for example, LIBOR or the S&P 500) used in Europe. If unlicensed trading of any index product where we hold an exclusive license were permitted, we could lose trading volume for these products which would adversely affect our revenues associated with the license and the related index products.We are subject to significant litigation and liability risks.Many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our participants, involve substantial risks of liability. These risks include, among others, potential liability from disputes over terms of a trade and the claim that a system failure or delay caused monetary loss to a participant or that an unauthorized trade occurred. For example, dissatisfied market participants that have traded on our electronic platform or those on whose behalf such participants have traded, may make claims regarding the quality of trade execution, or allege improperly confirmed or settled trades, abusive trading practices, security and confidentiality breaches, mismanagement or even fraud against us or our participants. In addition, because of the ease and speed with which sizable trades can be executed on our electronic platform, participants can lose substantial amounts by inadvertently entering trade orders or by entering them inaccurately. A large number of significant error trades could result in participant dissatisfaction and a decline in participant willingness to trade in our electronic markets.In addition, we are subject to on-going legal disputes that could result in the payment of fines, penalties or damages and could expose us to additional liability in the future. For example, on December 19, 2017, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, or the Second Circuit, issued its decision in City of Providence v. BATS Global Markets et al. Two of our subsidiaries, New York Stock Exchange LLC and NYSE Arca, Inc., are defendants in this case. In vacating the district court’s dismissal of this lawsuit and remanding for further proceedings, the Second Circuit concluded in part that the defendant securities exchanges are not immune from the claims in this case because absolute immunity is available to an SRO, like the New York Stock Exchange LLC and NYSE Arca, Inc., only when they carry out regulatory functions. Although our exchanges will continue to have other defenses available to them in securities litigation cases (including in this matter), limitations on the doctrine of absolute immunity could result in an increased exposure to litigation, and to increased liability and/or other legal expenses. Additionally, in January 2019, two virtually identical proposed class action lawsuits were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, asserting that various ICE entities, including ICE Benchmark Administration, engaged in an alleged conspiracy with the LIBOR panel banks to set the LIBOR benchmark at artificially low levels, for the alleged purpose and effect of depressing payments by those banks to persons who engaged in interest rate transactions with the banks from February 2014 to the present. While ICE intends to vigorously defend these matters, their outcome cannot be determined and adverse rulings could impact our financial condition and continued administration of the LIBOR benchmark.Further, we could incur significant expenses defending claims, even those without merit, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. An adverse resolution of any lawsuit or claim against us, including those we are involved with due to acquisition activity, may require us to pay substantial damages or impose restrictions on how we conduct business, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, we may have to establish accruals for those matters in circumstances when a loss contingency is considered 32probable and the related amount is reasonably estimable. Any such accruals may be adjusted as circumstances change. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements and related notes, which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report, for a summary of our legal proceedings and claims.We may be at greater risk from terrorism than other companies.Given our prominence in the global securities industry and the location of many of our properties and personnel in U.S. and European financial centers, including lower Manhattan, we may be more likely than other companies to be a direct target of, or an indirect casualty of, attacks by terrorists or terrorist organizations, or other extremist organizations that employ threatening or harassing means to achieve their social or political objectives.It is impossible to predict the likelihood or impact of any terrorist attack on the securities industry generally or on our business. In the event of an attack or a threat of an attack, our security measures and contingency plans may be inadequate to prevent significant disruptions in our business, technology or access to the infrastructure necessary to maintain our business. Damage to our facilities due to terrorist attacks may be significantly in excess of insurance coverage, and we may not be able to insure against some damage at a reasonable price or at all. The threat of terrorist attacks may also negatively affect our ability to attract and retain employees. In addition, terrorist attacks may cause instability or decreased trading in the securities markets, including trading on exchanges. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.Damage to our reputation could damage our business.Our business is highly competitive and our customers typically have options on where to conduct their business. Our management team and business operations benefit from being highly regarded in our industry. Maintaining our reputation is critical to attracting and retaining customers and investors and for maintaining our relationships with our regulators. Negative publicity regarding our company or actual, alleged or perceived issues regarding our products or services, operations, risk management, compliance with regulations or management team could give rise to reputational risk which could significantly harm our existing business and business prospects.Owning and operating voice broker and electronic fixed income brokerage businesses exposes us to additional risk, and these businesses are largely dependent on general market conditions.Our voice broker business provides brokerage services to clients in the form of agency transactions in commodity products. In agency transactions, customers pay transaction fees for trade execution services in which we connect buyers and sellers who settle their transactions directly. In connection with our fixed income business, our broker-dealers operate in both an agency and in a matched principal capacity (also known as “risk-less principal”). When trading as matched principal, we agree to buy instruments from one customer and sell them to another customer. The amount of the fee generally depends on the spread between the buy and sell price of the security that is brokered on our platforms. With respect to matched principal transactions, a counterparty to a matched principal transaction may fail to fulfill its obligations, or we may face liability for an unmatched trade. We also face the risk of not being able to collect transaction or subscription- based fees for brokerage and related services that we provide to our customers. Our success largely depends on key personnel, including our senior management. Because competition for our key employees is intense, we may not be able to attract, retain and develop the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. The loss of senior management or other key personnel could harm our business.Our future performance depends, in large part, on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel, including our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. Competition for key personnel in the various localities and business segments in which we operate is intense. Our ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular senior management, will be dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. There is no guarantee that we will have the continued service of key employees who we rely upon to execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel, or our inability to attract highly qualified senior management and other key personnel, could harm our business. In particular, we may have to incur costs to replace senior officers or other key employees who leave, and our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such persons in a timely manner.33We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments.We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders, principal and interest on our outstanding debt or repurchase shares of our common stock, is dividends from our subsidiaries. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by certain of our subsidiaries to us. If our subsidiaries are unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our stockholders, principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt or repurchase shares of our common stock, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware law may delay or deter a change of control of ICE.Our organizational documents contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of, or unsolicited acquisition proposals for, ICE. These provisions make a change of control less likely, which may be contrary to the desires of certain of our stockholders. Many of these provisions are required by relevant regulators in connection with our ownership and operation of U.S. and European equity exchanges. For example, our organizational documents include provisions that generally restrict any person (either alone or together with its related persons) from (i) voting or causing the voting of shares of stock representing more than 10% of our outstanding voting capital stock (including as a result of any agreement by any other persons not to vote shares of stock) or (ii) beneficially owning shares of stock representing more than 20% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock. Further, our organizational documents generally limit the ability of stockholders to call special stockholders’ meetings or act by written consent, and generally authorize our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to issue and fix the rights and preferences of one or more series of preferred stock. In addition, provisions of Delaware law may have a similar effect, such as provisions limiting the ability of certain interested stockholders, as defined under Delaware law, from causing the merger or acquisition of a corporation against the wishes of the Board of Directors.RISKS TO OUR BUSINESS RELATED TO OUR INVESTMENT IN AND OPERATION OF BAKKTWe may not realize the expected benefits of our majority investment in Bakkt and the investment may introduce additional risks to our business due to its newly developed and evolving business model.On August 3, 2018, we formed a new company, Bakkt, LLC, along with a group of organizations. We have a majority ownership interest in Bakkt. Bakkt intends to create an integrated platform that enables consumers and institutions to transact in digital assets and plans to include regulated trading, clearing and custodial solutions for digital assets. Due to our majority ownership interest in Bakkt, we have increased financial and reputational risks if there is a failure to launch or if the launch of this new business is unsuccessful. Also, there can be no assurance that we will receive the necessary regulatory approvals and support from customers to launch Bakkt as planned or that Bakkt will operate as anticipated or that we will realize the expected return on our investment. We regularly evaluate our existing operations, service capacity and business efficiencies and, as a result of such evaluations, we may undertake strategic initiatives outside of and within our businesses. As a result, it may take longer than expected for us to realize the expected returns from this investment or such returns may ultimately be less than anticipated. Furthermore, our investment in Bakkt entails numerous risks, including risks relating to Bakkt’s ability to:•manage the complexity of its business model to stay current with the industry;•successfully enter categories and markets in which it may have limited or no prior experience;•apply distributed ledger technology to a global ecosystem for digital assets; •successfully develop and integrate Bakkt products, systems or personnel into its business operations; and•establish the trading volume in Bakkt's Bitcoin futures contract, or any subsequent products released by Bakkt. As digital assets and blockchain technologies become more widely available, Bakkt expects the services and products associated with them to continue to develop and evolve. As a result, from time to time, Bakkt may add, modify or discontinue certain aspects of its business model relating to the product mix and service offerings. Future additions and modifications to Bakkt’s business will increase the complexity of its business and place significant strain on our and Bakkt’s management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial resources and internal financial control and reporting functions. We cannot offer any assurance that these or any other additions or modifications will be successful or will not result in harm to Bakkt’s or our business. 34Distributed ledger technology is relatively new and we believe that the application of distributed ledger technology to a global ecosystem for digital assets is novel to the proposed Bakkt systems and, accordingly, we have limited experience applying distributed ledger technology to a global ecosystem for digital assets. The creation and operation of an exchange for the transfer of digital assets utilizing a distributed ledger to enable consumers and institutions to confirm that the blockchain underlying these digital assets has not been altered is subject to potential technical, legal and regulatory constraints. Any problems that Bakkt encounters with the operation of the Bakkt systems, including technical, legal and regulatory problems, could have a material adverse effect on its business and plan of operations.Hiring qualified and experienced personnel in this specialized technology space is difficult due to the high level of competition and scarcity of experience. Bakkt may have difficulty finding, hiring and integrating qualified employees. This could put a strain on existing ICE employees and delay the work that these employees are performing for ICE and ICE’s subsidiaries. In addition, any potential issues or major decisions involving Bakkt may divert the attention of management and resources from matters that are core or critical to ICE’s business.We anticipate that, at the time of its launch, Bakkt will be dependent solely on trading volume from one product offering, Bakkt's Bitcoin futures contract, for its clearing and transaction fee revenues and profits. Failure to establish the trading volume in Bakkt's Bitcoin futures contract, or any subsequent products released by Bakkt, would negatively impact Bakkt's business, financial condition and operating results and, consequently, our majority ownership interest in Bakkt. Digital currency custodial solutions and related technology, including Bakkt’s systems and custodial arrangements, are subject to risks related to a loss of funds due to theft of cryptocurrencies, employee or vendor sabotage, security and cybersecurity risks, system failures and other operational issues and a lack of sufficient insurance, which could cause damage to our reputation and brand and Bakkt’s reputation and brand.Bakkt's systems and custodial solutions involve the processing, storage and transmission of cryptocurrencies and data. While Bakkt will contractually limit the amount of exposure it will have in the event that the cryptocurrencies are stolen or misappropriated, we cannot guarantee that these limits will protect us from additional liability and other damage. The theft or misappropriation of cryptocurrencies held in custody by Bakkt would likely result in financial loss, reputational damage, potential lack of trust from our customers in other business lines, negative press coverage and diversion of management’s time and focus. The secure storage and transmission of cryptocurrencies and data over networks will be a critical element of Bakkt’s operations. Despite the defensive measures Bakkt may take, these threats may come from external factors such as governments, organized crime, hackers and other third parties such as outsourced or infrastructure-support providers and application developers, or may originate internally from an employee or service provider to whom Bakkt has granted access to its systems.Cryptocurrency transactions are irrevocable and stolen or incorrectly transferred cryptocurrencies may be irretrievable. Once a transaction has been verified and recorded in a block that is added to the blockchain, an incorrect transfer of a cryptocurrency generally will not be reversible and Bakkt may not be capable of seeking compensation for any such transfer or theft. It is possible that, through computer or human error, or through theft or criminal action, the cryptocurrency could be transferred in incorrect amounts or to unauthorized third parties, or to uncontrolled accounts. Such events would have a material adverse effect on the ability of Bakkt to continue as a going concern, which would have a material adverse effect on our majority ownership interest in Bakkt.Although the cryptocurrencies held by Bakkt are insured, Bakkt may lose cryptocurrencies valued in excess of the insurance policy without any recourse. Unlike bank accounts or accounts at some other financial institutions, in the event of loss or loss of utility value, there is no public insurer, such as the Securities Investor Protection Corporation or the FDIC, to offer recourse to Bakkt or to any investor and the misappropriated cryptocurrencies cannot easily be traced to the bad actor.Further, when cryptocurrency custodial solutions or transfer venues (whether involving Bakkt systems or others) experience system failures or other operational issues, such events could result in a reduction in cryptocurrency prices or confidence and impact the success of Bakkt and have a material adverse effect on the ability of Bakkt to continue as a going concern.Regulatory changes or actions may alter the nature of our majority ownership interest in Bakkt or restrict the use of cryptocurrencies in a manner that adversely affects Bakkt’s business, prospects or operations and, consequently, our majority ownership interest in Bakkt.As cryptocurrencies have grown in both popularity and market size, governments around the world have reacted differently to cryptocurrencies, with certain governments deeming them illegal and others allowing their use and trade. Ongoing and future regulatory actions may impact the ability of Bakkt to continue to operate and such actions could affect the ability 35of Bakkt to continue as a going concern, which would have a material adverse effect on the business, prospects or operations of Bakkt and, consequently, our majority ownership interest in Bakkt.The CFTC designated bitcoin as a commodity, and as such, exchange-traded derivatives involving bitcoin are subject to the CFTC's jurisdiction and enforcement powers. Although the CFTC has suggested it is not particularly focused on pursuing such enforcement at this time, and in fact there may be some limits on its ability to do so without a specific connection to commodities derivatives markets, in the event that the CFTC does pursue such enforcement and ultimately shuts down an exchange on which Bakkt’s Bitcoin futures contract is traded, it may have a significant adverse impact on Bakkt's business and plan of operations and, consequently, our majority ownership interest in Bakkt.Governments may in the future curtail or outlaw the acquisition, use or redemption of cryptocurrencies. Ownership of, holding or trading in cryptocurrencies may then be considered illegal and subject to sanction. Governments may also take regulatory action that may increase the cost and/or subject cryptocurrency companies to additional regulation.ITEM 1 (B). UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS