Item 1A. RISK FACTORS   For a discussion of the Company’s potential risks or uncertainties, please see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the Company’s 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Outlook” and “— Critical Accounting Estimates” herein and in the 2009 Form 10-K. Other than as may be described below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of the Company’s 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K.   Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. We are extensively regulated and supervised in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business, including licensing and supervision by governmental regulatory agencies in such jurisdictions.   These regulatory systems are generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. For example, to protect policyholders whose insurance company becomes financially insolvent, guaranty funds have been established in all fifty states to pay the covered claims of policyholders in the event of an insolvency of an insurer. The funding of guaranty funds is provided through assessments levied against remaining insurers in the marketplace. As a result, the insolvency of one or more insurance companies could result in additional assessments levied against us.   These regulatory systems also address authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer’s business.   In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. In a time of financial uncertainty or a prolonged economic downturn, regulators may choose to adopt more restrictive insurance laws and regulations. For example, insurance regulators may choose to restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies or reject rate increases due to the economic environment.   Although the U.S. federal government has not historically regulated the insurance business, there have been proposals from time to time, and especially after the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, to impose federal regulation on the insurance industry. On July 21, 2010, the President signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a Federal Insurance Office within the U.S. Treasury. The Federal Insurance Office initially has limited regulatory authority and is empowered to gather data and information regarding the insurance industry and insurers, including conducting a study for submission to the U.S. Congress on how to modernize and improve insurance regulation in the U.S. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act gives the Federal Reserve supervisory authority over a number of financial services companies, including insurance companies, if they are designated by a two-thirds vote of a Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “Council”) as “systemically important.” While we do not believe that we are systemically important, as defined in the Dodd-Frank Act, it is possible that, at some point in the future, the Council may not agree with us. If we were designated as systemically important, the Federal Reserve’s supervisory authority could include the ability to impose heightened financial regulation and could impact requirements regarding our capital, liquidity and leverage as well as our business and investment conduct. As a result of the foregoing, the Dodd-Frank Act, or other additional federal regulation that is adopted in the future, could impose significant burdens on us, including impacting the ways in which we conduct our business, increasing compliance costs and duplicating state regulation, and could result in a competitive disadvantage.   Even if we are not subject to additional regulation by the federal government, significant financial sector regulatory reform, including the Dodd-Frank Act, could have a significant impact on us. For example, regulatory reform could have an unexpected impact on our rights as a creditor or on our competitive position. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act authorizes assessments to pay for the resolution of systemically important financial institutions that have become insolvent. We (as a financial company with more than $50 billion in assets) could be assessed, and, although any such assessment is required to be risk weighted (i.e., riskier firms pay more), such costs could be material to us and difficult for us to estimate.   76      Table of Contents   Other potential changes in U.S. federal legislation, regulation and/or administrative policies, including the potential repeal of the McCarran-Ferguson Act and potential changes in federal taxation, could also significantly harm the insurance industry, including us.   Outside of the U.S., the European Union’s executive body, the European Commission, is implementing new capital adequacy and risk management regulations called Solvency II that would apply to our businesses across the European Union, particularly in our U.K. businesses, beginning after October 31, 2012. Under Solvency II, it is possible that the U.S. parent of a European Union subsidiary could be subject to certain Solvency II requirements if the regulator determines that the subsidiary’s capital position is dependent on the parent company and the U.S. company is not already subject to regulations deemed “equivalent” to Solvency II. In addition, regulators in countries where we have operations are working with the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (and in the U.S., with the National Association of Insurance Commissioners) to consider changes to insurance company supervision, including solvency requirements and group supervision. While it is not yet known how these actions will impact the Company, such regulations could result in a need for additional capital, increased costs of compliance, increased disclosure and less flexibility in our capital management.   U.S. or non-U.S. insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth.   Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS