Item 1A. RISK FACTORS   For a discussion of the Company’s potential risks or uncertainties, please see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the Company’s 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Outlook” and “— Critical Accounting Estimates” herein and in the 2010 Form 10-K. Other than as described below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of the Company’s 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K.   A failure, or the perceived risk of a failure, to raise the statutory debt limit of the United States could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   The U.S. Treasury has estimated that, on August 2, 2011, the United States is expected to reach its statutory debt limit. Unless Congress and the President can agree to raise the statutory debt limit, the United States may be unable to pay its obligations, including treasury securities, as they become due. In light of that risk, each of Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s Corp. and Fitch Ratings has publicly warned of the possibility of a downgrade to the United States’ credit rating. The impact of a failure to raise the statutory debt limit is inherently unpredictable. The failure to raise the debt limit (or an increase in the perceived risk that such a failure may occur and/or the United States may not pay its debt obligations when due) could have a material adverse effect on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and throughout the world. In turn, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, these events could have a material adverse effect on the value and liquidity of financial assets, including assets in our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio at June 30, 2011 is described in note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in this report and included $10.02 billion carrying value of non-fixed-income securities and $62.98 billion carrying value of fixed income securities, of which $2.15 billion consisted of U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government and government agencies and authorities and $39.18 billion consisted of obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions.   For a discussion of the risks to our business during or following a financial market disruption and risks to our investment portfolio, see the risk factors entitled “During or following period of financial market disruption or economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected” and “Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or material realized or unrealized losses” included in “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the Company’s 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.   Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS