Item 1A. RISK FACTORS   For a discussion of the Company’s potential risks or uncertainties, please see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the Company’s 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Outlook” and “— Critical Accounting Estimates” herein and in the 2012 Form 10-K. Other than described below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of the Company’s 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K.   Changes to existing accounting standards may adversely impact our reported results. As a U.S.-based SEC reporting company, we are currently required to prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (US GAAP), as promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). During the last several years, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has been evaluating whether, when and how International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) should be incorporated into the U.S. financial reporting system, including for companies such as us. The FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) have also embarked on a long-term project to converge US GAAP and IFRS. In June 2012, the FASB issued a statement that indicated that based on the nature and totality of differences between the FASB’s and IASB’s views, it is not likely that the two boards will achieve convergence on their joint project on the accounting for insurance contracts. The FASB further noted that the FASB and IASB have very different perspectives on the project. In June 2013, each board issued for comment an exposure draft on the accounting for insurance contracts that has significant differences from the other board’s draft as well as from current US GAAP. Both exposure drafts propose changes that, if ultimately adopted, could significantly impact the accounting by insurers, including the Company, for premiums and unearned premium reserves, the liability for claims and claims adjustment expenses, reinsurance, and deferred acquisition costs. Upon completion of the comment period, both boards will review the comments received and will re-deliberate the guidance before issuing a final standard. As a result of this, it is currently unclear what changes, if any, may be   80      Table of Contents   made to the accounting for insurance contracts under US GAAP as a result of this project, and we are not able to predict whether we will choose to, or be required to, adopt IFRS or how the adoption of IFRS (or the convergence of US GAAP and IFRS, including the project on the accounting for insurance contracts) may impact our financial statements in the future. Changes in accounting standards, particularly those that specifically apply to insurance company operations, may impact the content and presentation of our reported financial results and could cause increased volatility in reported earnings and other adverse consequences to our reported financial results, and decrease comparability of our reported results with other insurers.   Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS