Item 1A. Risk FactorsExcept as set forth below, there have been no changes to the risk factors included in our 2014 Form 10-K: Risks Relating to the Proposed Merger with AetnaThe merger with Aetna is subject to various closing conditions, including governmental and regulatory approvals as well as other uncertainties and there can be no assurances as to whether and when it may be completed.On July 2, 2015, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (which we refer to as the “Merger Agreement”), with Aetna Inc. (or “Aetna”), Echo Merger Sub, Inc. (or “Sub 1”) and Echo Merger Sub, LLC (or “Sub 2”), each a wholly owned subsidiary of Aetna. Under the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, Sub 1 will merge with and into us (the “Merger”). In the Merger, each outstanding share of our common stock will be converted into the right to receive (i) 0.8375 of a share of Aetna common stock and (ii) $125 in cash without interest, subject to any required withholding taxes. Immediately after the Merger, we (as the surviving corporation in the Merger) will be merged with and into Sub 2, with Sub 2 remaining as the surviving entity of that merger and as a wholly owned subsidiary of Aetna, to be renamed Humana LLC. The Merger is expected to close in the second half of 2016.On October 19, 2015, at separate meetings, our stockholders approved the adoption of the Merger Agreement, and Aetna’s shareholders approved the issuance of Aetna common stock in the Merger. Consummation of the Merger remains subject to other customary closing conditions, however, a number of which are not within our or Aetna’s control, and it is possible that such conditions may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect the completion of the Merger. These conditions include, among other things, (i) the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and the receipt of necessary approvals under state insurance and healthcare laws and regulations and pursuant to certain licenses of certain of Humana’s subsidiaries, (ii) the absence of legal restraints and prohibitions on the consummation of the Merger, (iii) the effectiveness of the registration statement in respect of the Aetna common stock to be issued in the Merger, (iv) listing of the Aetna common stock to be issued in the Merger on the New York Stock Exchange, (v) subject to the relevant standards set forth in the Merger Agreement, the accuracy of the representations and warranties made by each party, (vi) material compliance by each party with its covenants in the Merger Agreement, and (vii) no “Company Material Adverse Effect” with respect to us and no “Parent Material Adverse Effect” with respect to Aetna, in each case since the execution of and as defined in the Merger Agreement. In addition, Aetna’s obligation to consummate the Merger is subject to (a) the condition that the required regulatory approvals do not impose any condition that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a “Regulatory Material Adverse Effect” (as such term is defined in the Merger Agreement), and (b) the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, has not imposed any sanctions with respect to our Medicare Advantage business that, individually or in the aggregate, is or would reasonably be expected to be material and adverse to us and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole. We cannot predict with certainty whether and when any of the required closing conditions will be satisfied or if another uncertainty may arise.If the Merger does not receive, or timely receive, the required regulatory approvals and clearances, or if any regulatory agencies impose certain conditions relating to the required regulatory approvals that would reasonably be expected to have a "Regulatory Material Adverse Effect", or if an event occurs that delays or prevents the Merger, such failure or delay to complete the Merger may cause uncertainty or other negative consequences that may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and the price per share for our common stock.62Table of ContentsThe Merger Agreement prohibits us from pursuing alternative transactions to the proposed Merger.Following the receipt of approval by our stockholders and Aetna's shareholders (with respect to the Aetna stock to be issued in the transaction) on October 19, 2015, the Merger Agreement is binding on the parties, subject to customary closing conditions. The Merger Agreement prohibits us from initiating, soliciting, knowingly encouraging, knowingly facilitating or entering into discussions or negotiations with any third party regarding alternative acquisition proposals. This provision prevents us from affirmatively seeking offers from other possible acquirers that may be superior to the pending Merger. We do not have the ability to terminate the Merger Agreement in order to accept a superior proposal since our stockholders have voted to approve the adoption of the Merger Agreement.The number of shares of Aetna common stock that our stockholders will receive in the Merger is based on a fixed exchange ratio. Because the market price of Aetna’s common stock will fluctuate, our stockholders cannot be certain of the value of the portion of the merger consideration to be paid in Aetna common stock.Upon completion of the Merger, each outstanding share of our common stock will be converted into the right to receive (i) 0.8375 of a share of Aetna common stock and (ii) $125 in cash without interest, subject to any required withholding taxes. The exchange ratio for determining the number of shares of Aetna common stock that our stockholders will receive in the Merger is fixed and will not be adjusted for changes in the market price of Aetna’s common stock, which will likely fluctuate before and after the completion of the Merger. Fluctuations in the value of Aetna’s common stock could result from changes in the business, operations or prospects of Aetna prior to or following the closing of the Merger, regulatory considerations, general market and economic conditions and other factors both within and beyond the control of us or Aetna. While the Merger is pending, we are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows or result in a loss of employees, customers, members or suppliers.The Merger Agreement includes restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion or termination of the Merger, generally requiring us to conduct our business in the ordinary course and subjecting us to a variety of specified limitations absent Aetna’s prior written consent. We may find that these and other contractual restrictions in the Merger Agreement may delay or prevent us from responding, or limit our ability to respond, effectively to competitive pressures, industry developments and future business opportunities that may arise during such period, even if our management believes they may be advisable. The pendency of the proposed Merger may also divert management’s attention and our resources from ongoing business and operations. Our employees, customers, members and suppliers may experience uncertainties about the effects of the Merger. In connection with the pending Merger, it is possible that some customers, members, suppliers and other parties with whom we have a business relationship may delay or defer certain business decisions or might decide to seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationship with us as a result of the Merger. Similarly, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us following completion of the Merger, which may materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. If any of these effects were to occur, it could materially and adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and the price per share for our common stock. Failure to consummate the Merger could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.If the Merger is not consummated, our ongoing businesses may be materially and adversely affected and, we will not have realized any of the potential benefits of having consummated the transaction, and we will be subject to a number of risks, including the following:•matters relating to the proposed Merger (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us;63Table of Contents•the Merger Agreement includes restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion or termination of the Merger, generally requiring us to conduct our business in the ordinary course and subjecting us to a variety of specified limitations absent Aetna's prior written consent. We may find that these and other contractual restrictions in the Merger Agreement may delay or prevent us from responding, or limit our ability to respond, effectively to competitive pressures, industry developments and future business opportunities that may arise during such period, even if our management believes they may be advisable. The pendency of the proposed Merger may also divert management’s attention and our resources from ongoing business and operations; •we may be required to pay a termination fee to Aetna and would have incurred expenses relating to the Merger; and•we also could be subject to litigation related to our failure to consummate the Merger or to perform our obligations under the Merger Agreement.If the Merger is not consummated, these risks may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and the price per share for our common stock.The fourth bullet under the risk factor entitled, “As a government contractor, we are exposed to risks that may materially adversely affect our business or our willingness or ability to participate in government health care programs,” is amended as follows (underlined):CMS uses a risk-adjustment model which apportions premiums paid to Medicare Advantage, or MA, plans according to health severity of covered members. The risk-adjustment model pays more for enrollees with predictably higher costs. Under this model, rates paid to MA plans are based on actuarially determined bids, which include a process whereby our prospective payments are based on a comparison of our beneficiaries’ risk scores, derived from medical diagnoses, to those enrolled in the government’s traditional fee-for-service Medicare program (referred to as "Medicare FFS"). Under the risk-adjustment methodology, all MA plans must collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient, and physician providers to CMS within prescribed deadlines. The CMS risk-adjustment model uses the diagnosis data to calculate the risk-adjusted premium payment to MA plans, which CMS adjusts for coding pattern differences between the health plans and the government fee-for-service program. We generally rely on providers, including certain providers in our network who are our employees, to code their claim submissions with appropriate diagnoses, which we send to CMS as the basis for our payment received from CMS under the actuarial risk-adjustment model. We also rely on these providers to document appropriately all medical data, including the diagnosis data submitted with claims. In addition, we conduct medical record reviews as part of our data and payment accuracy compliance efforts, to more accurately reflect diagnosis conditions under the risk adjustment model. These compliance efforts include the internal contract level audits described in more detail below. CMS is continuing to perform audits of various companies’ selected MA contracts related to this risk adjustment diagnosis data. We refer to these audits as Risk-Adjustment Data Validation Audits, or RADV audits. RADV audits review medical records in an attempt to validate provider medical record documentation and coding practices which influence the calculation of premium payments to MA plans. In 2012, CMS released a “Notice of Final Payment Error Calculation Methodology for Part C Medicare Advantage Risk Adjustment Data Validation (RADV) Contract-Level Audits.” The payment error calculation methodology provides that, in calculating the economic impact of audit results for an MA contract, if any, the results of the audit sample will be extrapolated to the entire MA contract based upon a comparison to “benchmark” audit data in Medicare FFS (which we refer to as the "FFS Adjuster"). This comparison to the FFS Adjuster is necessary to determine the economic impact, if any, of audit results because the government program data set, including any attendant errors that are present in that data set, provides the basis for MA plans’ risk adjustment to payment rates. CMS already makes other adjustments to payment rates based on a comparison of coding pattern differences between MA plans and Medicare FFS data (such as for frequency of coding for certain diagnoses in MA plan data versus the government program data set).  64Table of ContentsThe final methodology, including the first application of extrapolated audit results to determine audit settlements, is expected to be applied to RADV contract level audits currently being conducted on 2011 premium payments in which two of our Medicare Advantage plans are being audited. Per CMS guidance, selected MA contracts will be notified of an audit at some point after the close of the final reconciliation for the payment year being audited. The final reconciliation occurs in August of the calendar year following the payment year. We were notified on September 15, 2015, that five of our Medicare Advantage contracts have been selected for audit for contract year 2012. Estimated audit settlements are recorded as a reduction of premiums revenue in our consolidated statements of income, based upon available information. We perform internal contract level audits based on the RADV audit methodology prescribed by CMS. Included in these internal contract level audits is an audit of our Private Fee-For-Service business which we used to represent a proxy of the FFS Adjuster which has not yet been released. We based our accrual of estimated audit settlements for each contract year on the results of these internal contract level audits and update our estimates as each audit is completed. Estimates derived from these results were not material to our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. However, as indicated, we are awaiting additional guidance from CMS regarding the FFS Adjuster. Accordingly, we cannot determine whether such RADV audits will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.  In addition, CMS' comments in formalized guidance regarding “overpayments” to MA plans appear to be inconsistent with CMS' prior RADV audit guidance. These statements, contained in the preamble to CMS’ final rule release regarding Medicare Advantage and Part D prescription drug benefit program regulations for Contract Year 2015, appear to equate each Medicare Advantage risk adjustment data error with an “overpayment” without reconciliation to the principles underlying the FFS Adjuster referenced above. We will continue to work with CMS to ensure that MA plans are paid accurately and that payment model principles are in accordance with the requirements of the Social Security Act, which, if not implemented correctly could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. The risk factor entitled, “Our participation in the new federal and state health insurance exchanges, which entail uncertainties associated with mix, volume of business and the operation of premium stabilization programs, which are subject to federal administrative action, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows,” is amended as follows (underlined):The Health Care Reform Law required the establishment of health insurance exchanges for individuals and small employers to purchase health insurance that became effective January 1, 2014, with an annual open enrollment period. Insurers participating on the health insurance exchanges must offer a minimum level of benefits and are subject to guidelines on setting premium rates and coverage limitations. We may be adversely selected by individuals who have a higher acuity level than the anticipated pool of participants in this market. In addition, the risk corridor, reinsurance, and risk adjustment provisions of the Health Care Reform Law, established to apportion risk for insurers, may not be effective in appropriately mitigating the financial risks related to our products. On October 1, 2015, we and other industry participants received notification from CMS that 12.6% of risk corridor receivables for the 2014 coverage year would be paid between December 2015 and January 2016 based on expected risk corridor collections under the program for the 2014 coverage year. The risk corridor program is a three year program and HHS guidance provides that risk corridor collections over the life of the three year program will first be applied to any shortfalls from previous benefit years before application to current year obligations. Risk corridor payables to issuers are obligations of the United States Government under the Health Care Reform law which requires the Secretary of HHS to make full payments to issuers. In the event of a shortfall at the end of the three year program, HHS has asserted it will explore other sources of funding for risk corridor payments, subject to the availability of appropriations. In addition, regulatory changes to the implementation of the Health Care Reform Law that allowed individuals to remain in plans that are not compliant with the Health Care Reform Law may have an adverse effect on our pool of participants in the health insurance exchange. All of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows if our premiums are not adequate or do not appropriately reflect the acuity of these individuals. Any variation from our expectations regarding acuity, enrollment levels, adverse selection, or other assumptions used in setting premium rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.65Table of ContentsItem 2: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds