Item 1A: Risk Factors, the Bank currently has a written governance framework and associated controls.Legislative and regulatory reforms continue to have significant impacts throughout the financial services industry.The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in 2010, is complex and broad in scope and several of its provisions are still being implemented. The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB, which has extensive regulatory and enforcement powers over consumer financial products and services, and the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which has oversight authority for monitoring and regulating systemic risk. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act altered the authority and duties of the federal banking and securities regulatory agencies, implemented certain corporate governance requirements for all public companies including financial institutions with regard to executive compensation, proxy access by shareholders, and certain whistleblower provisions, and restricted certain proprietary trading, and hedge fund and private equity activities of banks and their affiliates. The Dodd-Frank Act also required the issuance of numerous implementing regulations, many of which have not yet been issued. The regulations will continue to take effect over several more years, continuing to make it difficult to anticipate the overall impact to us, our customers, or the financial industry in general.On October 3, 2015, the CFPB’s final rules on integrated mortgage disclosures under the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act became effective. On January 1, 2016, most requirements of the OCC’s Final Rule in Loans in Areas Having Special Flood Hazards (the Flood Final Rule) became effective, including the requirement that flood insurance premiums and fees for most mortgage loans be escrowed subject to certain exceptions. The Flood Final Rule also incorporated other existing flood insurance requirements and exceptions (e.g. the exemption from flood insurance requirements for non-residential detached structures - a discretionary item) with those portions of the Flood Final Rule becoming effective on October 1, 2015. We continue to monitor, evaluate, and implement these new regulations.Throughout 2015, the CFPB continued its focus on fair lending practices of indirect automobile lenders. This focus led to some lenders to enter into consent orders with the CFPB and Department of Justice. Indirect automobile lenders have also received continued pressure from the CFPB to limit or eliminate discretionary pricing by dealers. Finally, the CFPB has implemented its 11Table of Contentslarger participant rule for indirect automobile lending which brings larger non-bank indirect automobile lenders under CFPB supervision.Banking regulatory agencies have increasingly used their authority under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to unfair or deceptive acts or practices (UDAP) by banks under standards developed many years ago by the Federal Trade Commission in order to address practices that may not necessarily fall within the scope of a specific banking or consumer finance law. The Dodd-Frank Act also gave to the CFPB similar authority to take action in connection with unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices (UDAAP) by entities subject to CFPB supervisory or enforcement authority. Banks face considerable uncertainty as to the regulatory interpretation of “abusive” practices.Financial services companies face increased regulation and exposure under the new Military Lending Act (MLA) final rules issued by the Department of Defense that become effective for new loans entered into on and after October 3, 2016. The new rules dramatically expand the scope of coverage of the MLA and compliance with the new rules will affect operations of more financial services companies than under the previous rules. On July 10, 2015, the Federal Communication Commission, interpreting the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, issued an Omnibus Declaratory Ruling and Order that, among other things, restricted the use of automated telephone dialing machines. The ruling effectively increases the cost of collecting debts as well as increases the litigation risk associated with the use of auto-dialers.Large bank holding companies and national banks are required to submit annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve and OCC, respectively, and conduct stress tests.The Federal Reserve’s Regulation Y requires large bank holding companies to submit capital plans to the Federal Reserve on an annual basis and requires such bank holding companies to obtain approval from the Federal Reserve under certain circumstances before making a capital distribution. This rule applies to us and all other bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets.A large bank holding company’s capital plan must include an assessment of the expected uses and sources of capital over at least the next nine quarters, a description of all planned capital actions over the planning horizon, a detailed description of the entity’s process for assessing capital adequacy, the entity’s capital policy, and a discussion of any expected changes to the bank holding company’s business plan that are likely to have a material impact on the firm’s capital adequacy or liquidity. The planning horizon for the most recently completed capital planning and stress testing cycle encompasses the 2014 fourth quarter through the 2016 fourth quarter as was submitted in our capital plan in January 2015. Rules to implement the Basel III capital reforms in the United States were finalized in July 2013 and are being phased-in by us beginning with 1Q 2015 results under the standardized approach. Capital adequacy at large banking organizations, including us, is assessed against a minimum 4.5% CET1 ratio and a 4% tier 1 leverage ratio as determined by the Federal Reserve.Capital plans for 2016 are required to be submitted to the Federal Reserve by April 5, 2016, and the Federal Reserve will either object to the capital plan and/or planned capital actions, or provide a notice of non-objection, no later than June 30, 2016. We intend to submit our capital plan to the Federal Reserve on or before April 5, 2016. There can be no assurance that the Federal Reserve will respond favorably to our capital plan, capital actions or stress test and the Federal Reserve, OCC, or other regulatory capital requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our capital, including common stock dividends and stock repurchases.In addition to the CCAR submission, section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act requires that national banks, like The Huntington National Bank, conduct annual stress tests for submission beginning in January 2015. The results of the stress tests will provide the OCC with forward-looking information that will be used in bank supervision and will assist the agency in assessing a company’s risk profile and capital adequacy. We submitted our stress test results to the OCC in January 2015. We intend to submit our 2016 capital plan to the OCC on or before April 5, 2016. The regulatory capital rules indicate that common stockholders’ equity should be the dominant element within tier 1 capital and that banking organizations should avoid overreliance on non-common equity elements. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the ratio of common equity tier 1 to risk-weighted assets became significant as a measurement of the predominance of common equity in tier 1 capital and an indication of the quality of capital in accordance with their requirements.Conforming Covered Activities to implement the Volcker Rule.On December 10, 2013, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the CFTC and the SEC issued final rules to implement the Volcker Rule contained in section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, and established July 21, 2015, as the end of the conformance period. Section 619 generally prohibits an insured depository institution, any company that controls an insured depository institution (such 12Table of Contentsas a bank holding company), and any of their subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively, "banking entities") from engaging in short-term proprietary trading and from acquiring or retaining ownership interests in, sponsoring, or having certain relationships with a hedge fund or private equity fund ("covered funds"). These prohibitions are subject to a number of statutory exemptions, restrictions, and definitions. On December 18, 2014, the Federal Reserve announced it acted under Section 619 to give banking entities until July 21, 2016, to conform investments in and relationships with covered funds and foreign funds that were in place prior to December 31, 2013 (“legacy covered funds”). The Federal Reserve also announced its intention to act this year to grant banking entities an additional one-year extension of the conformance period until July 21, 2017, to conform ownership interests in and relationships with legacy covered funds. The Bank continues its “good faith” efforts to conform with proprietary trading prohibitions and associated compliance requirements. The Company does not expect Volcker compliance to have a material impact on its business model.The Volcker Rule's prohibitions impact the ability of U.S. banking entities to provide investment management products and services that are competitive with nonbanking firms generally and with non-U.S. banking organizations in overseas markets. The rule also effectively prohibits short-term trading strategies by any U.S. banking entity if those strategies involve instruments other than those specifically permitted for trading.The final Volcker Rule regulations do provide certain exemptions allowing banking entities to continue underwriting, market-making, and hedging activities and trading certain government obligations, as well as various exemptions and exclusions from the definition of “covered funds”. The level of required compliance activity depends on the size of the banking entity and the extent of its trading. CEOs of larger banking entities, including Huntington, have to attest annually in writing that their organization has in place processes to establish, maintain, enforce, review, test, and modify compliance with the Volcker Rule regulations. Banking entities with significant permitted trading operations will have to report certain quantitative information, beginning between June 30, 2014 and December 31, 2016, depending on the size of the banking entity’s trading assets and liabilities.On January 14, 2014, the five federal agencies approved an interim final rule to permit banking entities to retain interests in certain collateralized debt obligations backed primarily by trust preferred securities from the investment prohibitions of the Volcker Rule. Under the interim final rule, the agencies permit the retention of an interest in or sponsorship of covered funds by banking entities if certain qualifications are met. In addition, the agencies released a non-exclusive list of issuers that meet the requirements of the interim final rule. At December 31, 2015, we had investments in eight different pools of trust preferred securities. Seven of our pools are included in the list of non-exclusive issuers. We have analyzed the other pool that was not included on the list and believe that we will continue to be able to own this investment under the final Volcker Rule regulations.There are restrictions on our ability to pay dividends.Dividends from the Bank to the parent company are the primary source of funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders. However, there are statutory limits on the amount of dividends that the Bank can pay to the holding company. Regulatory approval is required prior to the declaration of any dividends in an amount greater than its undivided profits or if the total of all dividends declared in a calendar year would exceed the total of its net income for the year combined with its retained net income for the two preceding years, less any required transfers to surplus or common stock. The Bank is currently able to pay dividends to the holding company subject to these limitations.If, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank under its jurisdiction is engaged in, or is about to engage in, an unsafe or unsound practice, such authority may require, after notice and hearing, that such bank cease and desist from such practice. Depending on the financial condition of the Bank, the applicable regulatory authority might deem us to be engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice if the Bank were to pay dividends to the holding company.The Federal Reserve and the OCC have issued policy statements that provide that insured banks and bank holding companies should generally only pay dividends out of current operating earnings. Additionally, the Federal Reserve may prohibit or limit bank holding companies from making capital distributions, including payment of preferred and common dividends, as part of the annual capital plan approval process.We are subject to the current capital requirements mandated by the Federal Reserve and Basel III capital and liquidity frameworks.The Federal Reserve sets risk-based capital ratio and leverage ratio guidelines for bank holding companies. Under the guidelines and related policies, bank holding companies must maintain capital sufficient to meet both a risk-based asset ratio test and a leverage ratio test on a consolidated basis. The risk-based ratio is determined by allocating assets and specified off-balance sheet commitments into risk-weighted categories, with higher weighting assigned to categories perceived as representing greater risk. The risk-based ratio represents total capital divided by total risk-weighted assets. The leverage ratio is core capital divided by total assets adjusted as specified in the guidelines. The Bank is subject to substantially similar capital requirements.13Table of ContentsIn 2013, the Federal Reserve and the OCC adopted final capital rules implementing Basel III requirements for U.S. Banking organizations. The final rules establish an integrated regulatory capital framework and implement in the United States the Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under the final rule, minimum requirements will increase for both the quantity and quality of capital held by banking organizations. Consistent with the international Basel framework, the final rule includes a new minimum ratio of common equity tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets that will apply to all supervised financial institutions. The rule also raises the minimum ratio of tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and includes a minimum leverage ratio of 4%. These new minimum capital ratios were effective for us on January 1, 2015, and will be fully phased-in on January 1, 2019.The following are the Basel III regulatory capital levels that we must satisfy to avoid limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments during the applicable transition period, from January 1, 2015, until January 1, 2019:  Basel III Regulatory Capital Levels January 1,2015 January 1,2016 January 1,2017 January 1,2018 January 1,2019Common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio4.5% 5.125% 5.75% 6.375% 7.0%Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio6.0% 6.625% 7.25% 7.875% 8.5%Total risk-based capital ratio8.0% 8.625% 9.25% 9.875% 10.5%The final rule emphasizes CET1 capital, the most loss-absorbing form of capital, and implements strict eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments. The final rule also improves the methodology for calculating risk-weighted assets to enhance risk sensitivity. Banks and regulators use risk weighting to assign different levels of risk to different classes of assets.Based on the final Basel III rule, banking organizations with more than $15 billion in total consolidated assets are required to phase-out of additional tier 1 capital any non-qualifying capital instruments (such as trust preferred securities and cumulative preferred shares) issued before September 12, 2010. We began the additional tier 1 capital phase-out of our trust preferred securities in 2015, but will be able to include these instruments in tier 2 capital as a non-advanced approaches institution.Under Basel III, CET1 predominantly includes common stockholders’ equity, less certain deductions for goodwill and other intangible assets net of related taxes, over-funded net pension fund assets, and DTAs that arise from tax loss and credit carryforwards. We elected to exclude accumulated other comprehensive income from CET1 as permitted in the final rule. Tier 1 capital is predominantly comprised of CET1 as well as perpetual preferred stock and qualifying minority interests. Total capital predominantly includes tier 1 capital as well as certain long-term debt and allowance for credit losses qualifying for tier 2 capital. The calculations of CET1, tier 1 capital, and tier 2 capital include phase-out periods for certain instruments from January 2015 through December 2017. The primary items subject to the phase-out from capital for us are other intangible assets, DTAs that arise from tax loss and credit carryforwards, and trust preferred securities.Risk-weighted assets under the Basel III Standardized Approach are generally based on supervisory risk weightings that vary only by counterparty type and asset class. The revisions to supervisory risk weightings for Basel III enhance risk sensitivity and include alternatives to the use of credit ratings when calculating the risk weight for certain assets. Specifically, Basel III includes a more risk-sensitive treatment for past due and nonaccrual loans, certain commercial loans, MSRs, and certain unfunded commitments. Basel III also prescribes a new formulaic approach for calculating the risk weight of securitization exposures that is also more risk sensitive.Failure to meet applicable capital guidelines could subject the financial institution to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities. These include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a directive to increase capital, and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC. In addition, the financial institution could be subject to the measures described below under Prompt Corrective Action as applicable to under-capitalized institutions.The risk-based capital standards of the Federal Reserve, the OCC, and the FDIC specify that evaluations by the banking agencies of a bank’s capital adequacy will include an assessment of the exposure to declines in the economic value of a bank’s capital due to changes in interest rates. These banking agencies issued a joint policy statement on interest rate risk describing prudent methods for monitoring such risk that rely principally on internal measures of exposure and active oversight of risk management activities by senior management.14Table of ContentsFDICIA requires federal banking regulatory authorities to take Prompt Corrective Action with respect to depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. For these purposes, FDICIA establishes five capital tiers: well-capitalized, adequately-capitalized, under-capitalized, significantly under-capitalized, and critically under-capitalized.Throughout 2015, our regulatory capital ratios and those of the Bank were in excess of the levels established for well-capitalized institutions. An institution is deemed to be well-capitalized if it meets or exceeds the well-capitalized minimums listed below, and is not subject to a regulatory order, agreement, or directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure.      At December 31, 2015(dollar amounts in billions)  Well-capitalized minimums Actual ExcessCapital (1)Ratios:       Tier 1 leverage ratioConsolidated N/A 8.79% N/A Bank 5.00% 8.21 $2.2Common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratioConsolidated N/A 9.79 N/A Bank 6.50 9.46 1.7Tier 1 risk-based capital ratioConsolidated 6.00 10.53 2.0 Bank 8.00 9.83 0.1Total risk-based capital ratioConsolidated 10.00 12.64 1.5 Bank 10.00 11.74 1.0(1)Amount greater than the well-capitalized minimum percentage.FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distribution, including payment of a cash dividend or paying any management fee to its holding company, if the depository institution would become under-capitalized after such payment. Under-capitalized institutions are also subject to growth limitations and are required by the appropriate federal banking agency to submit a capital restoration plan. If any depository institution subsidiary of a holding company is required to submit a capital restoration plan, the holding company would be required to provide a limited guarantee regarding compliance with the plan as a condition of approval of such plan.Depending upon the severity of the under capitalization, the under-capitalized institutions may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately-capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets, cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks, and restrictions on making any payment of principal or interest on their subordinated debt. Critically under-capitalized institutions are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator within 90 days of becoming so classified.Under FDICIA, a well-capitalized bank may accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. A depository institution that is not well-capitalized is generally prohibited from accepting brokered deposits and offering interest rates on deposits higher than the prevailing rate in its market. Since the Bank is well-capitalized, the FDICIA brokered deposit rule did not adversely affect its ability to accept brokered deposits. The Bank had $2.9 billion of such brokered deposits at December 31, 2015.On September 3, 2014, the U.S. banking regulators approved a final rule to implement the U.S. version of the Basel Committee's minimum liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) requirement for banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more, and a less stringent modified LCR requirement to depository institution holding companies below the threshold but with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. The LCR requires covered banking organizations to maintain an amount of unencumbered HQLA equal to projected stressed cash outflows over a 30 calendar-day stress scenario. We are covered by the modified LCR requirement and therefore subject to the initial phase-in of the rule beginning in January 2016, with the requirement fully phased-in January 2017. We will also be required to calculate the LCR monthly. The modified LCR is a minimum requirement, and the Federal Reserve can impose additional liquidity requirements as a supervisory matter.We are required to submit annual resolution plansAs a bank holding company with greater than $50 billion of assets, we are required annually to submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a resolution plan for the rapid and orderly resolution of the Company in the event of material financial distress or failure. If both the Federal Reserve and the FDIC determine that our plan is not credible and the deficiencies are not cured in a timely manner, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC may jointly impose on us more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on our growth, activities or operations.15Table of ContentsThe FDIC separately has adopted a final rule requiring an insured depository institution with $50 billion or more in total assets, such as the Bank, to submit periodically to the FDIC a resolution plan for the resolution of such institution in the event of its failure. The FDIC rule requires each covered institution to provide a resolution plan that should enable the FDIC as receiver to resolve the institution in an orderly manner that enables prompt access of insured deposits; maximizes the return from the failed institution’s assets; and minimizes losses realized by creditors and the Deposit Insurance Fund. We filed our resolution plans pursuant to each rule in December 2015.As a bank holding company, we must act as a source of financial and managerial strength to the Bank.Under the Dodd-Frank Act, a bank holding company must act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and must commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank. The Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank. It may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices if the bank holding company fails to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank or if it undertakes actions that the Federal Reserve believes might jeopardize the bank holding company’s ability to commit resources to such subsidiary bank.Any loans by a holding company to a subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, an appointed bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, the bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the institution’s general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations.Federal law permits the OCC to order the pro-rata assessment of shareholders of a national bank whose capital stock has become impaired, by losses or otherwise, to relieve a deficiency in such national bank’s capital stock. This statute also provides for the enforcement of any such pro-rata assessment of shareholders of such national bank to cover such impairment of capital stock by sale, to the extent necessary, of the capital stock owned by any assessed shareholder failing to pay the assessment. As the sole shareholder of the Bank, we are subject to such provisions.Moreover, the claims of a receiver of an insured depository institution for administrative expenses and the claims of holders of deposit liabilities of such an institution are accorded priority over the claims of general unsecured creditors of such an institution, including the holders of the institution’s note obligations, in the event of liquidation or other resolution of such institution. Claims of a receiver for administrative expenses and claims of holders of deposit liabilities of the Bank, including the FDIC as the insurer of such holders, would receive priority over the holders of notes and other senior debt of the Bank in the event of liquidation or other resolution and over our interests as sole shareholder of the Bank.Transactions between the Bank and its affiliates are restricted.Federal banking law and regulation imposes qualitative standards and quantitative limitations upon certain transactions by a bank with its affiliates, including the bank’s bank holding company and certain companies the bank holding company may be deemed to control for these purposes. Transactions covered by these provisions must be on arm’s-length terms, and cannot exceed certain amounts which are determined with reference to the bank’s regulatory capital. Moreover, if the transaction is a loan or other extension of credit, it must be secured by collateral in an amount and quality expressly prescribed by statute, and if the affiliate is unable to pledge sufficient collateral, the bank holding company may be required to provide it.Provisions added by the Dodd-Frank Act expanded the scope of (i) the definition of affiliate to include any investment fund having any bank or BHC-affiliated company as an investment advisor, (ii) credit exposures subject to the prohibition on the acceptance of low-quality assets or securities issued by an affiliate as collateral, the quantitative limits, and the collateralization requirements to now include credit exposures arising out of derivative, repurchase agreement, and securities lending/borrowing transactions, and (iii) transactions subject to quantitative limits to now also include credit collateralized by affiliate-issued debt obligations that are not securities. In addition, these provisions require that a credit extension to an affiliate remain secured in accordance with the collateral requirements at all times that it is outstanding, rather than the previous requirement of only at the inception or upon material modification of the transaction. They also raise significantly the procedural and substantive hurdles required to obtain a regulatory exemption from the affiliate transaction requirements. While these provisions became effective on July 21, 2012, the Federal Reserve has not yet issued a proposed rule to implement them.As a financial holding company, we are subject to additional laws and regulations.As a financial holding company we are permitted to engage in, and affiliate with financial companies engaging in, a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permitted for a bank holding company. In order to maintain our status as a financial holding company, we and the Bank must each remain “well-capitalized” and “well-managed.” In addition, the Bank must receive 16Table of Contentsa Community Reinvestment Act ("CRA") rating of at least “Satisfactory” at its most recent examination for us to engage in the full range of activities permissible for financial holding companies. Pursuant to CRA, the OCC examines the Bank to assess the Bank’s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the Bank and assigns a rating based on that assessment. The CRA assessment and rating is reviewed by the Federal Reserve in evaluating a variety of applications including to merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of other institutions, or to open or relocate a branch office.Financial holding company powers relate to financial activities that are specified in the Bank Holding Company Act or determined by the Federal Reserve, in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be financial in nature, incidental to an activity that is financial in nature, or complementary to a financial activity, provided that the complementary activity does not pose a safety and soundness risk. In addition, we are required by the Bank Holding Company Act to obtain Federal Reserve approval prior to acquiring, directly or indirectly, ownership or control of voting shares of any bank, if, after such acquisition, we would own or control more than 5% of its voting stock. Furthermore, the Dodd-Frank Act added a new provision to the Bank Holding Company Act, which requires bank holding companies with total consolidated assets equal to or greater than $50 billion to obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve to acquire a nondepository company having total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more.We also must comply with anti-money laundering and customer privacy regulations, as well as corporate governance, accounting, and reporting requirements.The USA Patriot Act of 2001 and its related regulations require insured depository institutions, broker-dealers, and certain other financial institutions to have policies, procedures, and controls to detect, prevent, and report money laundering and terrorist financing. Federal banking regulators are required, when reviewing bank holding company acquisition and bank merger applications, to take into account the effectiveness of the anti-money laundering activities of the applicants. The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network has proposed a rule for those same entities, and, if adopted, the proposal will prescribe customer due diligence requirements, including a new regulatory mandate to identify the beneficial owners of legal entities which are customers.Pursuant to Title V of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, we, like all other financial institutions, are required to:•provide notice to our customers regarding privacy policies and practices,•inform our customers regarding the conditions under which their nonpublic personal information may be disclosed to nonaffiliated third parties, and•give our customers an option to prevent certain disclosure of such information to nonaffiliated third parties.The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposed new or revised corporate governance, accounting, and reporting requirements on us. In addition to a requirement that chief executive officers and chief financial officers certify financial statements in writing, the statute imposed requirements affecting, among other matters, the composition and activities of audit committees, disclosures relating to corporate insiders and insider transactions, code of ethics, and the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting.The Federal Reserve, jointly with the OCC and FDIC, has issued guidance to ensure that incentive compensation arrangements at financial institutions take into account risk and are consistent with safe and sound practices. In addition, the federal financial regulators issued a proposed rule in April 2011 pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act to adopt standards for determining whether an incentive-based compensation arrangement may encourage inappropriate risk-taking that are consistent with the key principles established for incentive compensation in the guidance. The proposed rule would apply to financial institutions with $1 billion or more in assets, with heightened standards for financial institutions with $50 billion or more in assets. The guidance from the regulators on compensation is still evolving. Available InformationThis information may be read and copied at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet web site that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information about issuers, like us, who file electronically with the SEC. The address of the site is http://www.sec.gov. The reports and other information filed by us with the SEC are also available free of charge at our Internet web site. The address of the site is http://www.huntington.com. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information on those web sites is not part of this report. You also should be able to inspect reports, proxy statements, and other information about us at the offices of the NASDAQ National Market at 33 Whitehall Street, New York, New York.17Table of ContentsItem 1A: Risk FactorsRisk GovernanceWe use a multi-faceted approach to risk governance. It begins with the board of directors defining our risk appetite as aggregate moderate-to-low. This does not preclude engagement in select higher risk activities. Rather, the definition is intended to represent an aggregate view of where we want our overall risk to be managed.Three board committees primarily oversee implementation of this desired risk appetite and monitoring of our risk profile: •The Audit Committee oversees the integrity of the consolidated financial statements, including policies, procedures, and practices regarding the preparation of financial statements, the financial reporting process, disclosures, and internal control over financial reporting. The Audit Committee also provides assistance to the board in overseeing the internal audit division and the independent registered public accounting firm’s qualifications and independence; compliance with our Financial Code of Ethics for the chief executive officer and senior financial officers; and compliance with corporate securities trading policies.•The Risk Oversight Committee assists the board of directors in overseeing management of material risks, the approval and monitoring of the Company’s capital position and plan supporting our overall aggregate moderate-to-low risk profile, the risk governance structure, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and determining adherence to the board’s stated risk appetite. The committee has oversight responsibility with respect to the full range of inherent risks: market, credit, liquidity, legal, compliance/regulatory, operational, strategic, and reputational. This committee also oversees our capital management and planning process, ensures that the amount and quality of capital are adequate in relation to expected and unexpected risks, and that our capital levels exceed “well-capitalized” requirements. •The Technology Committee assists the board of directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities with respect to all technology, cyber security, and third-party risk management strategies and plans. The committee is charged with evaluating Huntington’s capability to properly perform all technology functions necessary for its business plan, including projected growth, technology capacity, planning, operational execution, product development, and management capacity. The committee provides oversight of the technology segment investments and plans to drive efficiency as well as to meet defined standards for risk, security, and redundancy. The Committee oversees the allocation of technology costs and ensures that they are understood by the board of directors. The Technology Committee monitors and evaluates innovation and technology trends that may affect the Company’s strategic plans, including monitoring of overall industry trends. The Technology Committee reviews and provides oversight of the company’s continuity and disaster recovery planning and preparedness.The Audit and Risk Oversight Committees routinely hold executive sessions with our key officers engaged in accounting and risk management. On a periodic basis, the two committees meet in joint session to cover matters relevant to both, such as the construct and appropriateness of the ACL, which is reviewed quarterly. All directors have access to information provided to each committee and all scheduled meetings are open to all directors.Further, through its Compensation Committee, the board of directors seeks to ensure its system of rewards is risk-sensitive and aligns the interests of management, creditors, and shareholders. We utilize a variety of compensation-related tools to induce appropriate behavior, including common stock ownership thresholds for the chief executive officer and certain members of senior management, a requirement to hold until retirement or exit from the Company, a portion of net shares received upon exercise of stock options or release of restricted stock awards (50% for executive officers and 25% for other award recipients), equity deferrals, recoupment provisions, and the right to terminate compensation plans at any time.Management has implemented an Enterprise Risk Management and Risk Appetite Framework. Critically important is our self-assessment process, in which each business segment produces an analysis of its risks and the strength of its risk controls. The segment analyses are combined with assessments by our risk management organization of major risk sectors (e.g., credit, market, liquidity, operational, legal, compliance, reputational, and strategic) to produce an overall enterprise risk assessment. Outcomes of the process include a determination of the quality of the overall control process, the direction of risk, and our position compared to the defined risk appetite.Management also utilizes a wide series of metrics (key risk indicators) to monitor risk positions throughout the Company. In general, a range for each metric is established, which allows the Company, in aggregate, to operate within an aggregate moderate-to-low risk profile. Deviations from the range will indicate if the risk being measured exceeds desired tolerance, which may then necessitate corrective action.We also have four executive level committees to manage risk: ALCO, Credit Policy and Strategy, Risk Management, and Capital Management. Each committee focuses on specific categories of risk and is supported by a series of subcommittees that are tactical in nature. We believe this structure helps ensure appropriate escalation of issues and overall communication of strategies.18Table of ContentsHuntington utilizes three lines of defense with regard to risk management: (1) business segments, (2) corporate risk management, and (3) internal audit and credit review. To induce greater ownership of risk within its business segments, segment risk officers have been embedded to identify and monitor risk, elevate and remediate issues, establish controls, perform self-testing, and oversee the self-assessment process. Corporate Risk Management establishes policies, sets operating limits, reviews new or modified products/processes, ensures consistency and quality assurance within the segments, and produces the enterprise risk assessment. The Chief Risk Officer has significant input into the design and outcome of incentive compensation plans as they apply to risk. Internal Audit and Credit Review provide additional assurance that risk-related functions are operating as intended.Risk OverviewWe, like other financial companies, are subject to a number of risks that may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, many of which are outside of our direct control, though efforts are made to manage those risks while optimizing returns. Among the risks assumed are: •Credit risk, which is the risk of loss due to loan and lease customers or other counterparties not being able to meet their financial obligations under agreed upon terms; •Market risk, which occurs when fluctuations in interest rates impact earnings and capital. Financial impacts are realized through changes in the interest rates of balance sheet assets and liabilities (net interest margin) or directly through valuation changes of capitalized MSR and/or trading assets (noninterest income); •Liquidity risk, which is the risk to current or anticipated earnings or capital arising from an inability to meet obligations when they come due. Liquidity risk includes the inability to access funding sources or manage fluctuations in funding levels. Liquidity risk also results from the failure to recognize or address changes in market conditions that affect the Bank’s ability to liquidate assets quickly and with minimal loss in value; •Operational and legal risk, which is the risk of loss arising from inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, human errors or misconduct, or adverse external events. Operational losses result from internal fraud; external fraud, inadequate or inappropriate employment practices and workplace safety, failure to meet professional obligations involving customers, products, and business practices, damage to physical assets, business disruption and systems failures, and failures in execution, delivery, and process management. Legal risk includes, but is not limited to, exposure to orders, fines, penalties, or punitive damages resulting from litigation, as well as regulatory actions; and •Compliance risk, which exposes us to money penalties, enforcement actions or other sanctions as a result of nonconformance with laws, rules, and regulations that apply to the financial services industry.We also expend considerable effort to contain risk which emanates from execution of our business processes and strategies and work relentlessly to protect the Company’s reputation. Strategic risk and reputational risk do not easily lend themselves to traditional methods of measurement. Rather, we closely monitor them through processes such as new product / initiative reviews, frequent financial performance reviews, colleague and client surveys, monitoring market intelligence, periodic discussions between management and our board, and other such efforts.In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference into this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could negatively impact our business, future results of operations, and future cash flows materially.Credit Risks:1. Our ACL level may prove to be inappropriate or be negatively affected by credit risk exposures which could materially adversely affect our net income and capital.Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers. Our ACL of $670 million at December 31, 2015, represented Management’s estimate of probable losses inherent in our loan and lease portfolio as well as our unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit. We periodically review our ACL for appropriateness. In doing so, we consider economic conditions and trends, collateral values, and credit quality indicators, such as past charge-off experience, levels of past due loans, and NPAs. There is no certainty that our ACL will be appropriate over time to cover losses in the portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy, market conditions, or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries, or markets. If the credit quality of our customer base materially decreases, if the risk profile of a market, industry, or group of customers changes materially, or if the ACL is not appropriate, our net income and capital could be materially adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.In addition, regulatory review of risk ratings and loan and lease losses may impact the level of the ACL and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.19Table of Contents2. Weakness in economic conditions could materially adversely affect our business.Our performance could be negatively affected to the extent there is deterioration in business and economic conditions which have direct or indirect material adverse impacts on us, our customers, and our counterparties. These conditions could result in one or more of the following:•A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us;•A decrease in customer savings generally and in the demand for savings and investment products offered by us; and•An increase in the number of customers and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws, or default on their loans or other obligations to us.An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies, or defaults could result in a higher level of NPAs, NCOs, provision for credit losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. The markets we serve are dependent on industrial and manufacturing businesses and, thus, are particularly vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions affecting these sectors.Market Risks:1. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income, reduce transactional income, and negatively impact the value of our loans, securities, and other assets. This could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations, and capital.Our results of operations depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on interest earning assets (such as investments and loans) and interest paid on interest bearing liabilities (such as deposits and borrowings). Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. Conditions such as inflation, deflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, and other factors beyond our control may also affect interest rates. If our interest earning assets mature or reprice faster than interest bearing liabilities in a declining interest rate environment, net interest income could be materially adversely impacted. Likewise, if interest bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest earning assets in a rising interest rate environment, net interest income could be adversely impacted. The continuation of the current low interest rate environment or a deflationary environment with negative interest rates could affect consumer and business behavior in ways that are adverse to us and could also constrict our net interest income margin which may restrict our ability to increase net interest income.Changes in interest rates can affect the value of loans, securities, assets under management, and other assets, including mortgage and nonmortgage servicing rights. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans and leases may lead to an increase in NPAs and a reduction of income recognized, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. When we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we reverse any accrued but unpaid interest receivable, which decreases interest income. However, we continue to incur interest expense as a cost of funding NALs without any corresponding interest income. In addition, transactional income, including trust income, brokerage income, and gain on sales of loans can vary significantly from period-to-period based on a number of factors, including the interest rate environment. A decline in interest rates along with a flattening yield curve limits our ability to reprice deposits given the current historically low level of interest rates and could result in declining net interest margins if longer duration assets reprice faster than deposits. Rising interest rates reduce the value of our fixed-rate securities and cash flow hedging derivatives portfolio. Any unrealized loss from these portfolios impacts OCI, shareholders’ equity, and the Tangible Common Equity ratio. Any realized loss from these portfolios impacts regulatory capital ratios. In a rising interest rate environment, pension and other post-retirement obligations somewhat mitigate negative OCI impacts from securities and financial instruments. For more information, refer to “Market Risk” of the MD&A.Certain investment securities, notably mortgage-backed securities, are very sensitive to rising and falling rates. Generally, when rates rise, prepayments of principal and interest will decrease and the duration of mortgage-backed securities will increase. Conversely, when rates fall, prepayments of principal and interest will increase and the duration of mortgage-backed securities will decrease. In either case, interest rates have a significant impact on the value of mortgage-backed securities.The value of our MSR asset is also a function of changes in interest rates and prepayment expectations. Declining interest rates primarily in the longer end of the yield curve reduces the value of the MSR asset. In addition to volatility associated with interest rates, the Company also has exposure to equity markets related to the investments within the benefit plans and other income from client based transactions. 20Table of Contents2. Industry competition may have an adverse effect on our success.Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive environment, and we expect competition to intensify due in part to the sustained low interest rate and ongoing low-growth economic environment. Certain of our competitors are larger and have more resources than we do, enabling them to be more aggressive than us in competing for loans and deposits. In our market areas, we face competition from other banks and financial service companies that offer similar services. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations we are and, therefore, may have greater flexibility in competing for business. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including customer convenience, quality of service by investing in new products and services, personal contacts, pricing, and range of products. If we are unable to successfully compete for new customers and retain our current customers, our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be adversely affected. In particular, if we experience an outflow of deposits as a result of our customers seeking investments with higher yields or greater financial stability, or a desire to do business with our competitors, we may be forced to rely more heavily on borrowings and other sources of funding to operate our business and meet withdrawal demands, thereby adversely affecting our net interest margin. For more information, refer to “Competition” section of Item 1: Business.Liquidity Risks:1. Changes in either Huntington’s financial condition or in the general banking industry could result in a loss of depositor confidence.Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. The Bank uses its liquidity to extend credit and to repay liabilities as they become due or as demanded by customers. The board of directors establishes liquidity policies and limits and management establishes operating guidelines for liquidity.Our primary source of liquidity is our large supply of deposits from consumer and commercial customers. The continued availability of this supply depends on customer willingness to maintain deposit balances with banks in general and us in particular. The availability of deposits can also be impacted by regulatory changes (e.g. changes in FDIC insurance, the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, etc.), and other events which can impact the perceived safety or economic benefits of bank deposits. While we make significant efforts to consider and plan for hypothetical disruptions in our deposit funding, market related, geopolitical, or other events could impact the liquidity derived from deposits.2. If we lose access to capital markets, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors, creditors, and borrowers, or have the operating cash needed to fund corporate expansion and other corporate activities.Wholesale funding sources include securitization, federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-core deposits, and long-term debt. The Bank is also a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati, which provides members access to funding through advances collateralized with mortgage-related assets. We maintain a portfolio of highly-rated, marketable securities that is available as a source of liquidity.Capital markets disruptions can directly impact the liquidity of the Bank and Corporation. The inability to access capital markets funding sources as needed could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and level of regulatory-qualifying capital. We may, from time-to-time, consider using our existing liquidity position to opportunistically retire outstanding securities in privately negotiated or open market transactions.Operational and Legal Risks:1. We face security risks, including denial of service attacks, hacking, social engineering attacks targeting our colleagues and customers, malware intrusion or data corruption attempts, and identity theft that could result in the disclosure of confidential information, adversely affect our business or reputation, and create significant legal and financial exposure.Our computer systems and network infrastructure are subject to security risks and could be susceptible to cyber-attacks, such as denial of service attacks, hacking, terrorist activities or identity theft. Financial services institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber-attacks and other means. Denial of service attacks have been launched against a number of large financial services institutions, including us. None of these events against us resulted in a breach of our client data or account information; however, the performance of our website, www.huntington.com, was adversely affected, and in some instances customers were prevented from accessing our website. We expect to be subject to similar attacks in the future. While events to date primarily resulted in inconvenience, future cyber-attacks could be more disruptive and damaging. Hacking and identity theft risks, in particular, could cause serious reputational harm. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and we may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks and could be held liable for any security breach or loss.21Table of ContentsDespite efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, we may not be able to anticipate all security breaches of these types, nor may we be able to implement guaranteed preventive measures against such security breaches. Persistent attackers may succeed in penetrating defenses given enough resources, time and motive. The techniques used by cyber criminals change frequently, may not be recognized until launched and can originate from a wide variety of sources, including outside groups such as external service providers, organized crime affiliates, terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. These risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase our mobile-payment and other internet-based product offerings and expand our internal usage of web-based products and applications.Even the most advanced internal control environment may be vulnerable to compromise. Targeted social engineering attacks and "spear phishing" attacks are becoming more sophisticated and are extremely difficult to prevent. The successful social engineer will attempt to fraudulently induce colleagues, customers or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to its data or that of its clients.A successful penetration or circumvention of system security could cause us serious negative consequences, including significant disruption of operations, misappropriation of confidential information, or damage to our computers or systems or those of our customers and counterparties. A successful security breach could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to us or to our customers, loss of confidence in our security measures, significant litigation exposure, and harm to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company.2. The resolution of significant pending litigation, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for a particular period.We face legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. Substantial legal liability against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. It is possible that the ultimate resolution of these matters, if unfavorable, may be material to the results of operations for a particular reporting period.Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements updates the status of certain material litigation including litigation related to the bankruptcy of Cyberco Holdings, Inc. 3. We face significant operational risks which could lead to financial loss, expensive litigation, and loss of confidence by our customers, regulators, and capital markets.We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including the risk of fraud or theft by colleagues or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by colleagues or outsiders, operational errors by colleagues, business disruption, and system failures. Huntington executes against a significant number of controls, a large percent of which are manual and dependent on adequate execution by colleagues and third-party service providers. There is inherent risk that unknown single points of failure through the execution chain could give rise to material loss through inadvertent errors or malicious attack. These operational risks could lead to financial loss, expensive litigation, and loss of confidence by our customers, regulators, and the capital markets.Moreover, negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including clients, products and business practices; corporate governance; acquisitions; and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and can also expose us to litigation and regulatory action.Relative to acquisitions, we incur risks and challenges associated with the integration of acquired businesses and institutions in a timely and efficient manner, and we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in retaining existing customer relationships or achieving anticipated operating efficiencies expected from such acquisitions (including our pending acquisition of FirstMerit Corporation). Acquisitions may be subject to, and our pending acquisition of FirstMerit Corporation is subject to, the receipt of approvals from certain governmental authorities, including the Federal Reserve, the OCC, and the United States Department of Justice, as well as the approval of our shareholders and the shareholders of companies that we seek to acquire. These approvals for acquisitions may not be received, may take longer than expected, or may impose conditions that are not presently anticipated or that could have an adverse effect on the combined company following the acquisitions. Subject to requisite regulatory approvals, future business acquisitions may result in the issuance and payment of additional shares of stock, which would dilute current shareholders’ ownership interests. Additionally, acquisitions may also involve the payment of a premium over book and market values. Therefore, dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share could occur in connection with any future transaction. 22Table of Contents4. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in the future could impair our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results or prevent fraud, resulting in loss of investor confidence and adversely affecting our business and our stock price.Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. As a financial holding company, we are subject to regulation that focuses on effective internal controls and procedures. Such controls and procedures are modified, supplemented, and changed from time-to-time as necessitated by our growth and in reaction to external events and developments. Any failure to maintain, in the future, an effective internal control environment could impact our ability to report our financial results on an accurate and timely basis, which could result in regulatory actions, loss of investor confidence, and an adverse impact on our business and our stock price.5. We rely on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values.Quantitative models may be used to help manage certain aspects of our business and to assist with certain business decisions, including estimating probable loan losses, measuring the fair value of financial instruments when reliable market prices are unavailable, estimating the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and results of operations, managing risk, and for capital planning purposes (including during the CCAR capital planning and capital adequacy process). Our measurement methodologies rely on many assumptions, historical analyses, and correlations. These assumptions may not capture or fully incorporate conditions leading to losses, particularly in times of market distress, and the historical correlations on which we rely may no longer be relevant. Additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect this evolution. Even if the underlying assumptions and historical correlations used in our models are adequate, our models may be deficient due to errors in computer code, bad data, misuse of data, or the use of a model for a purpose outside the scope of the model’s design.All models have certain limitations. Reliance on models presents the risk that our business decisions based on information incorporated from models will be adversely affected due to incorrect, missing, or misleading information. In addition, our models may not capture or fully express the risks we face, may suggest that we have sufficient capitalization when we do not, or may lead us to misjudge the business and economic environment in which we will operate. If our models fail to produce reliable results on an ongoing basis, we may not make appropriate risk management, capital planning, or other business or financial decisions. Strategies that we employ to manage and govern the risks associated with our use of models may not be effective or fully reliable. Also, information that we provide to the public or regulators based on poorly designed models could be inaccurate or misleading.Banking regulators continue to focus on the models used by banks and bank holding companies in their businesses. Some of our decisions that the regulators evaluate, including distributions to our shareholders, could be affected adversely due to their perception that the quality of the models used to generate the relevant information is insufficient.6. We rely on third parties to provide key components of our business infrastructure. We rely on third-party service providers to leverage subject matter expertise and industry best practice, provide enhanced products and services, and reduce costs. Although there are benefits in entering into third-party relationships with vendors and others, there are risks associated with such activities. When entering a third-party relationship, the risks associated with that activity are not passed to the third-party but remain our responsibility. The Technology Committee of the board of directors provides oversight related to the overall risk management process associated with third-party relationships. Management is accountable for the review and evaluation of all new and existing third-party relationships. Management is responsible for ensuring that adequate controls are in place to protect us and our customers from the risks associated with vendor relationships. Increased risk could occur based on poor planning, oversight, and control and inferior performance or service on the part of the third-party, and may result in legal costs or loss of business. While we have implemented a vendor management program to actively manage the risks associated with the use of third-party service providers, any problems caused by third-party service providers could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and to conduct our business. Replacing a third-party service provider could also take a long period of time and result in increased expenses.7. Changes in accounting policies, standards, and interpretations could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations.The FASB, regulatory agencies, and other bodies that establish accounting standards periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of our financial statements. Additionally, those bodies that establish and interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, SEC, and banking regulators) may change prior interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially affect how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. The FASB is currently close to issuing several new accounting standards that will have significant impacts on the banking industry. Most notably, new guidance on the calculation of credit reserves using expected losses (Current Expected Credit Losses) versus incurred losses is close to being finalized and, upon implementation, could 23Table of Contentssignificantly impact our required credit reserves. Other impacts to capital levels, profit and loss, and various financial metrics will also result.Compliance Risks:1. Bank regulations regarding capital and liquidity, including the annual CCAR assessment process and the Basel III capital and liquidity standards, could require higher levels of capital and liquidity. Among other things, these regulations could impact our ability to pay common stock dividends, repurchase common stock, attract cost-effective sources of deposits, or require the retention of higher amounts of low yielding securities.The Federal Reserve administers the annual CCAR, an assessment of the capital adequacy of bank holding companies with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more and of the practices used by covered banks to assess capital needs. Under CCAR, the Federal Reserve makes a qualitative assessment of capital adequacy on a forward-looking basis and reviews the strength of a bank holding company’s capital adequacy process. The Federal Reserve also makes a quantitative assessment of capital based on supervisory-run stress tests that assess the ability to maintain capital levels above each minimum regulatory capital ratio and above a CET1 ratio of 4.5%, after making all capital actions included in a bank holding company’s capital plan, under baseline and stressful conditions throughout a nine-quarter planning horizon. Capital plans for 2016 are required to be submitted by April 5, 2016, and the Federal Reserve will either object to the capital plan and/or planned capital actions, or provide a notice of non-objection, no later than June 30, 2016. We intend to submit our capital plan to the Federal Reserve on or before April 5, 2016. The Bank also must submit a capital plan to the OCC on or before April 5, 2016. There can be no assurance that the Federal Reserve will respond favorably to our capital plan, capital actions or stress test and the Federal Reserve, OCC, or other regulatory capital requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our capital, including common stock dividends and stock repurchases.In 2013, the Federal Reserve and the OCC adopted final rules to implement the Basel III capital rules for U.S. Banking organizations. The final rules establish an integrated regulatory capital framework and will implement in the United States the Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under the final rule, minimum requirements will increase for both the quantity and quality of capital held by banking organizations. As a Standardized Approach institution, the Basel III minimum capital requirements became effective for us on January 1, 2015, and will be fully phased-in on January 1, 2019.On September 3, 2014, the U.S. banking regulators approved a final rule to implement a minimum liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) requirement for banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more, and a less stringent modified LCR requirement to depository institution holding companies below the threshold but with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. The LCR requires covered banking organizations to maintain HQLA equal to projected stressed cash outflows over a 30 calendar-day stress scenario. We are covered by the modified LCR requirement and therefore subject to the phase-in of the rule beginning January 2016 at 90% and January 2017 at 100%. We will also be required to calculate the LCR monthly. The LCR assigns less severe outflow assumptions to certain types of customer deposits, which should increase the demand, and perhaps the cost, among banks for these deposits. Additionally, the HQLA requirements will increase the demand for direct US government and US government- guaranteed debt that, while high quality, generally carry lower yields than other securities that banks hold in their investment portfolios.2. If our regulators deem it appropriate, they can take regulatory actions that could result in a material adverse impact on our financial results, ability to compete for new business, or preclude mergers or acquisitions. In addition, regulatory actions could constrain our ability to fund our liquidity needs or pay dividends. Any of these actions could increase the cost of our services. We are subject to the supervision and regulation of various state and federal regulators, including the OCC, Federal Reserve, FDIC, SEC, CFPB, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, and various state regulatory agencies. As such, we are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations, many of which are discussed in the Regulatory Matters section. As part of their supervisory process, which includes periodic examinations and continuous monitoring, the regulators have the authority to impose restrictions or conditions on our activities and the manner in which we manage the organization. Such actions could negatively impact us in a variety of ways, including charging monetary fines, impacting our ability to pay dividends, precluding mergers or acquisitions, limiting our ability to offer certain products or services, or imposing additional capital requirements.With the addition of the CFPB, our consumer products and services are subject to increasing regulatory oversight and scrutiny with respect to compliance under consumer laws and regulations. We may face a greater number or wider scope of investigations, enforcement actions, and litigation in the future related to consumer practices, thereby increasing costs associated with responding to or defending such actions. In addition, increased regulatory inquiries and investigations, as well as any additional legislative or regulatory developments affecting our consumer businesses, and any required changes to our business operations resulting from these developments, could result in significant loss of revenue, require remuneration to our customers, trigger fines or penalties, limit the products or services we offer, require us to increase our prices and, therefore, reduce demand for our products, impose additional compliance costs on us, cause harm to our reputation, or otherwise adversely affect our consumer businesses.24Table of Contents3. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future that impact the financial industry may materially adversely affect us by increasing our costs, adding complexity in doing business, impeding the efficiency of our internal business processes, negatively impacting the recoverability of certain of our recorded assets, requiring us to increase our regulatory capital, limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, and otherwise resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operation, liquidity, or stock price.The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States, establishes the CFPB, and requires the bureau and other federal agencies to implement many new and significant rules and regulations. It is not possible to predict the full extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act, or the resulting rules and regulations in their entirety, will impact our business. Compliance with these new laws and regulations have and will continue to result in additional costs, which could be significant, and may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if we do not appropriately comply with current or future legislation and regulations that apply to our consumer operations, we may be subject to fines, penalties or judgments, or material regulatory restrictions on our businesses, which could adversely affect operations and, in turn, financial results.4. We may become subject to more stringent regulatory requirements and activity restrictions if the Federal Reserve and FDIC determine that our resolution plan is not credible. The Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations jointly issued by Federal Reserve and the FDIC require bank holding companies with more than $50 billion in assets to annually submit a resolution plan to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC that, in the event of material financial distress or failure, establish the rapid, orderly resolution of the Company under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. If the Federal Reserve and the FDIC jointly determine that our 2015 resolution plan is not “credible,” we could become subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions, or restrictions on our growth, activities or operations, and could eventually be required to divest certain assets or operations in ways that could negatively impact its operations and strategy. 5. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected if we lose our financial holding company status.In order for us to maintain our status as a financial holding company, we and the Bank must remain “well capitalized,” and “well managed.” If we or our Bank cease to meet the requirements necessary for us to continue to qualify as a financial holding company, the Federal Reserve may impose upon us corrective capital and managerial requirements, and may place limitations on our ability to conduct all of the business activities that we conduct as a financial holding company. If the failure to meet these standards persists, we could be required to divest our Bank, or cease all activities other than those activities that may be conducted by bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. In addition, our ability to commence or engage in certain activities as a financial holding company will be restricted if the Bank fails to maintain at least a “Satisfactory” rating on its most recent Community Reinvestment Act examination.Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments