Item 1A. Risk Factors  The following risk factors and other information included in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q should be carefully read and considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company’s management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. If any of the following risks occurs, Moody’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. For a discussion of the Company’s other risk factors, refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors”, contained in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.  The Current World-Wide Credit Market Disruptions and Economic Slowdown and Other Factors Have and Could Continue to Negatively Impact the Demand for Credit Ratings  Approximately 54% of MIS’ revenue for the first nine months of 2008 was transaction-based. Revenue from rating transactions, in turn, are dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. Accordingly, any conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers’ willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuances for which Moody’s provides ratings services, and thereby, have an adverse effect on the fees derived from the issuance of ratings.  The current world-wide credit market disruptions and economic slowdown, have negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. A significant disruption in world financial markets, particularly in the credit markets, that began in mid-2007 worsened materially in the third quarter of 2008, particularly in the latter portion of the quarter when many credit markets experienced a severe lack of liquidity. Consequently, the Company has experienced a substantial reduction in the demand for ratings of debt securities resulting in a 32% decrease in MIS revenue for the first nine months of 2008 compared to the same period in 2007. The timing and nature of any recovery in the credit and other financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that results will not continue to be adversely affected. A sustained period of market decline or weakness, especially if it relates to credit sensitive securities, for which there is typically a high level of demand for ratings, could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business and financial results. Initiatives that the Company has undertaken to reduce costs may not be sufficient to offset the results of a prolonged or more severe downturn, and further cost reductions may be difficult or impossible to obtain in the near term, due in part to rent, technology and other fixed costs associated with some of our operations as well as the need to monitor outstanding ratings. Further, the cost-reduction initiatives undertaken to date could result in strains in our operations if the credit markets and demand for ratings return to levels that prevailed in early 2007 or otherwise unexpectedly surge.  Other factors that could further reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers’ willingness or ability to issue such securities include increases in interest rates or credit spreads, continued volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant regulatory, political or economic events, the use of alternative sources of credit including financial institutions and government sources, defaults of significant issuers and other unfavorable market and economic conditions.    41    Table of Contents Recent government actions to stabilize financial institutions may not be effective and could adversely affect our competitive position  The U.S. government recently announced several programs, including the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, and the October 14, 2008 joint statement by the United States Treasury, Federal Reserve and FDIC announcing the Troubled Asset Relief Program through which the government is authorized to purchase up to $700 billion in whole loans and mortgage-related securities as well as to invest directly in financial institutions, the Treasury Department’s money market mutual fund guaranty program, the Federal Reserve’s commercial paper funding facility and payment of interest on reserve balances, and the FDIC’s temporary liquidity guarantee program. Additionally, the governments of many nations and international organizations such as the International Monetary Fund have announced similar measures for institutions and countries around the world. There is no assurance that these programs individually or collectively will have beneficial effects in the credit markets, will address credit or liquidity issues of companies that participate in the programs, will reduce volatility or uncertainty in the financial markets or will reverse or moderate the slowdown and downturn of world economies. The failure of these programs to have their intended effects could have a material adverse effect on the financial markets, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, these and similar initiatives could reduce the demand for ratings of credit securities or other financial products, could result in increased government regulation of such markets and could have other unanticipated adverse effects on the markets for and demand for debt securities and/or for ratings of such instruments. Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds