Item 1A. Risk Factors  In addition to the risk factors addressed under Item 1A. “Risk Factors”, contained in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, the following risk factors should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company’s management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. If any of such risks occur, Moody’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.  Regulation as a Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization and Potential for New Domestic and Overseas Legislation and Regulations  Credit rating agencies are regulated in both the U.S. and in other countries (including by state and local authorities). Currently, Moody’s is designated as an NRSRO pursuant to SEC regulations enacted in response to the adoption of the Reform Act. One of the central promises of the Reform Act was to encourage competition among rating agencies. Given its comparatively recent adoption and the number of additional reforms being proposed and considered, Moody’s is unable accurately to assess the future impact of any regulatory changes that may result from the SEC’s regulations or the impact on Moody’s competitive position or its current practices. Possible consequences of these new regulations include issues that may affect all entities engaged in the rating agency business, such as expected increased costs, or issues that may affect Moody’s in a disproportionate manner. Any of these changes could negatively impact Moody’s operations or profitability, the Company’s ability to compete, or the markets for its products and services in ways that Moody’s presently is unable to predict.  Further, over the past year, both the G-8 and the G-20 have sought to analyze and arrive at a consistent approach for addressing the various areas of the financial market and have made a variety of recommendations as to regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. Finance ministers have also agreed to register rating agencies in their home jurisdiction. As a result of the internationally coordinated activity, individual countries have begun implementing registration regimes for the oversight of CRAs in the coming years. In particular, the European Union adopted a new regulatory framework for rating agencies operating in the EU. The regulation seeks to introduce a common EU regulatory approach to the oversight of CRAs. Its primary objective is to enhance the integrity, transparency, responsibility, governance and reliability of credit rating activities, by laying down conditions for the issuance of credit ratings and rules on the organization and conduct of credit rating agencies. The regulation will likely become fully implemented by the end of the second quarter of 2010. As with the recent regulatory initiatives in the U.S., these initiatives may affect all entities engaged in the rating agency business or may affect Moody’s in a disproportionate manner, and could negatively impact Moody’s operations or profitability, the Company’s ability to compete, or the markets for its products and services in ways that Moody’s presently is unable to predict.  In addition to the foregoing, in the wake of the credit crisis, many legislative and regulatory bodies, both in the U.S. and in other countries, have been studying or pursuing new laws and regulations addressing CRAs and the use of credit ratings, particularly in the area of structured finance securities, and the role of CRAs in leading up to such disruptions. Given the G-20 statement, it is likely that such initiatives will lead to additional laws or regulations affecting Moody’s operations or profitability, the Company’s ability to compete, or the markets for its products and services. This could include adopting regulations that affect the need for debt securities to be rated, establish criteria for credit ratings or authorize only certain entities to provide credit ratings, which could negatively affect competition among rating agencies, the level of demand for ratings or the Company’s ability to provide objective assessments of creditworthiness. These initiatives, including legislation pending in the U.S. Congress, are likely to increase the costs associated with the operation of a CRA, alter the rating agencies’ communications with the issuers as part of the rating assignment process, change the regulatory framework to which CRAs are subject, affect the competitive environment in which CRAs operate and, due to liability standards included in versions of the Congressional bills, increase the legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings.  As existing laws and regulations applicable to credit ratings and rating agencies continue to evolve and new laws or regulations are adopted, the costs of compliance can be expected to increase, and Moody’s may not be able to pass on these costs through the pricing of its products. In addition, increased regulatory uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of laws and regulations may increase costs, decrease demand or affect the manner in which Moody’s or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, or alter the economics of the credit ratings business by restricting or mandating the business models under which a CRA is permitted to operate.    46    Table of Contents Moody’s stock price may also be affected by speculation regarding legislative and regulatory initiatives and their potential impact on Moody’s business.  A description of several of the more recent regulatory initiatives in the U.S. and other countries is described above under the section entitled “Regulation” in Part I, Item 2 of the MD&A of this Form 10-Q.  Exposure to Litigation Related to Moody’s Rating Opinions  Currently, Moody’s has received subpoenas and inquiries from states attorneys general and governmental authorities, as part of ongoing investigations, and is responding to those inquiries. In addition, Moody’s faces litigation from parties claiming damages relating to ratings actions, as well as other related business practices. In these difficult economic times and turbulent markets, when the value of credit-dependent instruments has declined and defaults have increased, the number of investigations and legal proceedings Moody’s is facing has increased significantly. These proceedings impose additional expenses on the Company, which may increase over time as these matters progress procedurally, require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time addressing other business issues, and, given the number of these proceedings and lawsuits, present a greater risk that Moody’s may be subject to fines or damages, which would be the case if we are deemed to have violated any laws or regulations. As Moody’s international business expands, these types of claims may increase or become more costly because foreign jurisdictions may not have legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that currently exist in the U.S. (such as protections for the expression of credit opinions as provided by the First Amendment) and may pose criminal rather than civil penalties for non-compliance. These risks often are and may continue to be difficult to assess or quantify and we may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover them, and their existence and magnitude often remains unknown for substantial periods of time.  In addition, to the extent that any of the legislative initiatives pending in the U.S. Congress are successful in modifying, in a manner adverse to CRAs, the rules governing the potential liability of CRAs in connection with the issuance of ratings, the number of legal proceedings, especially as related to future ratings, may increase materially and the potential exposure of CRAs thereunder may also increase. The Company believes that adoption of these provisions may lead to unintended consequences that could negatively impact credit markets, including causing CRAs to cease to issue ratings on certain securities or issuers, increasing the cost of ratings, delaying issuances of ratings and restricting the public availability of ratings. Any such changes could materially negatively impact the Company’s business and prospects. It is possible that implementing changes to the Company’s operations to address the changed liability standards may result in lower revenues or increased expenses that the Company may not be able to recoup or offset, which could be material, and may not be successful in avoiding or mitigating the impact of the changed liability standard.      Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds