Item 1A. Risk Factors Related to Our Business and Operations  Our business activities and the value of our securities are subject to significant risk factors, including those described below. The risk factors described below could negatively affect our operations, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, and as a result, holders and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their investments. It is possible that additional risks relating to our securities may be described in a prospectus supplement if we issue securities in the future.  Our business and operating results are highly dependent on the market prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, which can be very volatile. Our estimated proved reserves, revenue, operating cash flows, operating margins, and future earnings are highly dependent on the prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, which are volatile and influenced by numerous factors beyond our control. The major foreign oil producing countries, including members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), exert considerable influence over the supply and price of crude oil and refined petroleum products. Their ability or inability to agree on a common policy on rates of production and other matters has a significant impact on the oil markets. The commodities trading markets as well as other supply and demand factors may also influence the selling prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas. To the extent that we engage in hedging activities to mitigate commodity price volatility, we may not realize the benefit of price increases above the hedged price. Changes in commodity prices can also have a material impact on collateral and margin requirements under our derivative contracts. In order to manage the potential volatility of cash flows and credit requirements, the Corporation utilizes significant bank credit facilities. An inability to renew or replace such credit facilities or access other sources of funding as they mature would negatively impact our liquidity. In addition, we are exposed to risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency values, and may engage in hedging activities to mitigate related volatility.  If we fail to successfully increase our reserves, our future crude oil and natural gas production will be adversely impacted. We own or have access to a finite amount of oil and gas reserves which will be depleted over time. Replacement of oil and gas production and reserves, including proved undeveloped reserves, is subject to successful exploration drilling, development activities, and enhanced recovery programs. Therefore, future oil and gas production is dependent on technical success in finding and developing additional hydrocarbon reserves. Exploration activity involves the interpretation of seismic and other geological and geophysical data, which does not always successfully predict the presence of commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. Drilling risks include unexpected adverse conditions, irregularities in pressure or formations, equipment failure, blowouts and weather interruptions. Future developments may be affected by unforeseen reservoir conditions which negatively affect recovery factors or flow rates. The costs of drilling and development activities have increased in recent years which could negatively affect expected economic returns. Reserve replacement can also be    13    Table of Contents  achieved through acquisition. Similar risks, however, may be encountered in the production of oil and gas on properties acquired from others.  There are inherent uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves and discounted future net cash flows, and actual quantities may be lower than estimated. Numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues from those reserves. Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses, and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates and could materially affect the estimated quantities of our proved reserves and the related future net revenues. In addition, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward changes based on production performance, purchases or sales of properties, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices, production sharing contracts, which may decrease reserves as crude oil and natural gas prices increase, and other factors.  We do not always control decisions made under joint operating agreements and the partners under such agreements may fail to meet their obligations. We conduct many of our exploration and production operations through joint operating agreements with other parties under which we may not control decisions, either because we do not have a controlling interest or are not operator under the agreement. There is risk that these parties may at any time have economic, business, or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and therefore decisions may be made which are not what we believe is in our best interest. Moreover, parties to these agreements may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. In either case, the value of our investment may be adversely affected.  We are subject to changing laws and regulations and other governmental actions that can significantly and adversely affect our business. Federal, state, local, territorial and foreign laws and regulations relating to tax increases and retroactive tax claims, disallowance of tax credits and deductions, expropriation or nationalization of property, mandatory government participation, cancellation or amendment of contract rights, imposition of capital controls or blocking of funds, changes in import and export regulations, limitations on access to exploration and development opportunities, as well as other political developments may affect our operations. As a result of the accident in April 2010 at the BP p.l.c. (BP) operated Macondo prospect in the Gulf of Mexico (in which the Corporation was not a participant) and the ensuing significant oil spill, a temporary drilling moratorium was imposed in the Gulf of Mexico. While this moratorium has since been lifted, significant new regulations have been imposed and further legislation and regulations may be proposed. The new regulatory environment has resulted in a longer permitting process and higher costs. We also transport some of our crude oil production, particularly from the Bakken shale oil play, by rail. Recent rail accidents have raised public awareness of rail safety and may result in heightened regulatory scrutiny that may lead to an increase in the costs of transporting crude oil and other hydrocarbons by rail and otherwise adversely impact our operations.  Political instability in areas where we operate can adversely affect our business. Some of the international areas in which we operate, and the partners with whom we operate, are politically less stable than other areas and partners. Political and civil unrest in North Africa and the Middle East has affected and may affect our operations in these areas as well as oil and gas markets generally. For example, production at the Waha fields in Libya, which has a net production capacity of approximately 25,000 boepd, has been shut-in since August 2013 and was also shut-in for eight months in 2011 due to civil unrest. The threat of terrorism around the world also poses additional risks to the operations of the oil and gas industry.  Our oil and gas operations are subject to environmental risks and environmental laws and regulations that can result in significant costs and liabilities. Our oil and gas operations, like those of the industry, are subject to environmental risks such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose us to substantial liability for pollution or other environmental damage. Our operations are also subject to numerous U.S. federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. Non-compliance with these laws and regulations may subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial clean-ups and natural resource damages or other liabilities. In addition, increasingly stringent environmental regulations have resulted and will likely continue to result in higher capital expenditures and operating expenses for us and the oil and gas industry in general.  Concerns have been raised in certain jurisdictions where we have operations concerning the safety and environmental impact of the drilling and development of shale oil and gas resources, particularly hydraulic fracturing, water usage, flaring of associated natural gas and air emissions. While we believe that these operations can be conducted safely and with minimal impact on the environment, regulatory bodies are responding to these concerns and may impose moratoriums and new regulations on such drilling operations that would likely have the effect of prohibiting or delaying such operations and increasing their cost. For example, a moratorium prohibiting hydraulic fracturing is currently impacting the Corporation’s exploration activities in France.    14    Table of Contents Concerns about climate change may result in significant operational changes and expenditures, reduced demand for our products and adversely affect our business. We recognize that climate change is a global environmental concern. Continuing political and social attention to the issue of climate change has resulted in both existing and pending international agreements and national, regional or local legislation and regulatory measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions. These agreements and measures may require significant equipment modifications, operational changes, taxes, or purchase of emission credits to reduce emission of greenhouse gases from our operations, which may result in substantial capital expenditures and compliance, operating, maintenance and remediation costs. In addition, our production is used to produce petroleum fuels, which through normal customer use may result in the emission of greenhouse gases. Regulatory initiatives to reduce the use of these fuels may reduce our sales of crude oil and other hydrocarbons. The imposition and enforcement of stringent greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets could severely and adversely impact the oil and gas industry and significantly reduce the value of our business. Finally, to the extent that climate change may result in more extreme weather related events, we could experience increased costs related to prevention, maintenance and remediation of affected operations in addition to higher costs and lost revenues related to delays and shutdowns.  Our industry is highly competitive and many of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we have. The petroleum industry is highly competitive and very capital intensive. We encounter competition from numerous companies in each of our activities, including acquiring rights to explore for crude oil and natural gas. Many competitors, including national oil companies, are larger and have substantially greater resources. We are also in competition with producers of other forms of energy. Increased competition for worldwide oil and gas assets has significantly increased the cost of acquiring oil and gas assets. In addition, competition for drilling services, technical expertise and equipment may affect the availability of technical personnel and drilling rigs, resulting in increased capital and operating costs.  Catastrophic events, whether naturally occurring or man-made, may materially affect our operations and financial conditions. Our oil and gas operations are subject to unforeseen occurrences which have affected us from time to time and which may damage or destroy assets, interrupt operations and have other significant adverse effects. Examples of catastrophic risks include hurricanes, fires, explosions, blowouts, such as the third party accident at the Macondo prospect, pipeline interruptions and ruptures, severe weather, geological events, labor disputes or cyber-attacks. Although we maintain insurance coverage against property and casualty losses, there can be no assurance that such insurance will adequately protect the Corporation against liability from all potential consequences and damages. Moreover, some forms of insurance may be unavailable in the future or be available only on terms that are deemed economically unacceptable.  Cyber-attacks targeting our computer and telecommunications systems and infrastructure used by the oil and gas industry may materially impact our business and operations. Computers and telecommunication systems are used to conduct our exploration, development and production activities and have become an integral part of our business. We use these systems to analyze and store financial and operating data and to communicate within our company and with outside business partners. Cyber-attacks could compromise our computer and telecommunications systems and result in disruptions to our business operations, the loss or corruption of our data and proprietary information and communications interruptions. In addition, computers control oil and gas distribution systems globally and are necessary to deliver our production to market. A cyber-attack impacting these distribution systems, or the networks and infrastructure on which they rely, could damage critical production, distribution and/or storage assets, delay or prevent delivery to markets and make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions. Our systems and procedures for protecting against such attacks and mitigating such risks may prove to be insufficient and such attacks could have an adverse impact on our business and operations.  Item 3. Legal Proceedings