Item 1A. Risk Factors Related to Our Business and Operations   Our business activities and the value of our securities are subject to significant risk factors, including those described below. The risk factors described below could negatively affect our operations, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, and as a result, holders and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their investments. It is possible that additional risks relating to our securities may be described in a prospectus supplement if we issue securities in the future.   Our business and operating results are highly dependent on the market prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, which can be very volatile. Our estimated proved reserves, revenue, operating cash flows, operating margins, and future earnings are highly dependent on the prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, which are volatile and influenced by numerous factors beyond our control. The major foreign oil producing countries, including members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), exert considerable influence over the supply and price of crude oil and refined petroleum products. Their ability or inability to agree on a common policy on rates of production and other matters has a significant impact on the oil markets. In the fourth quarter of 2014, prices for Brent crude oil and West Texas Intermediate crude oil declined by approximately 40% to end the year at $57 per barrel and $53 per barrel, respectively. If crude oil prices remain at these levels for the remainder of 2015, there will be a significant decrease in 2015 revenues, and earnings from 2014 levels. We cannot predict how long these lower price levels will continue to prevail. The commodities trading markets as well as other supply and demand factors may also influence the selling prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas. To the extent that we engage in hedging activities to mitigate commodity price volatility, we may not realize the benefit of price increases above the hedged price. Changes in commodity prices can also have a material impact on collateral and margin requirements under our derivative contracts. In order to manage the potential volatility of cash flows and credit requirements, the Corporation maintains significant bank credit facilities. An inability to renew or replace such credit facilities or access other sources of funding as they mature would negatively impact our liquidity. In addition, we are exposed to risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency values, and may engage in hedging activities to mitigate related volatility.   If we fail to successfully increase our reserves, our future crude oil and natural gas production will be adversely impacted. We own or have access to a finite amount of oil and gas reserves which will be depleted over time. Replacement of oil and gas production and reserves, including proved undeveloped reserves, is subject to successful exploration drilling, development activities, and enhanced recovery programs. Therefore, future oil and gas production is dependent on technical success in finding and developing additional hydrocarbon reserves. Exploration activity involves the interpretation of seismic and other geological and geophysical data, which does not always successfully predict the presence of commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. Drilling risks include unexpected adverse conditions, irregularities in pressure or formations, equipment failure, blowouts and weather interruptions. Future developments may be affected by unforeseen reservoir conditions which negatively affect recovery factors or flow rates. The costs of drilling and development activities have increased in recent years which could negatively affect expected economic returns. Reserve replacement can also be achieved through acquisition. Similar risks, however, may be encountered in the production of oil and gas on properties acquired from others. In addition to the technical risks to reserve replacement, replacing reserves and developing future production is also influenced by the price of crude oil and natural gas. Persistent lower crude oil and natural gas prices, such as those currently prevailing, may have the effect of reducing capital available for exploration and development activity and may render certain development projects uneconomic or delay their completion and may result in negative revisions to existing reserves.   There are inherent uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves and discounted future net cash flows, and actual quantities may be lower than estimated. Numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues from those reserves. Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses, and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates and could materially affect the estimated quantities of our proved reserves and the related future net revenues. In addition, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward changes based on production performance, purchases or sales of properties, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices, production sharing contracts, which may decrease reserves as crude oil and natural gas prices increase, and other factors. Crude oil prices declined significantly in the fourth quarter of 2014. See Crude Oil and Natural Gas Reserves in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   We do not always control decisions made under joint operating agreements and the partners under such agreements may fail to meet their obligations. We conduct many of our exploration and production operations through joint operating agreements with other parties under which we may not control decisions, either because we do not have a controlling interest or are not operator under the agreement. There is risk that these parties may at any time have economic,    14    business, or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and therefore decisions may be made which are not what we believe is in our best interest. Moreover, parties to these agreements may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. In either case, the value of our investment may be adversely affected.   We are subject to changing laws and regulations and other governmental actions that can significantly and adversely affect our business. Federal, state, local, territorial and foreign laws and regulations relating to tax increases and retroactive tax claims, disallowance of tax credits and deductions, expropriation or nationalization of property, mandatory government participation, cancellation or amendment of contract rights, imposition of capital controls or blocking of funds, changes in import and export regulations, limitations on access to exploration and development opportunities, anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, as well as other political developments may affect our operations. We transport some of our crude oil production, particularly from the Bakken shale oil play, by rail. Recent rail accidents have raised public awareness of rail safety and resulted in heightened regulatory scrutiny. We own our own fleet of tank cars that exceed the current federal standards for construction and safety. We expect that in 2015, the Department of Transportation will issue new standards for tank car design which may require us to retrofit our existing tank cars. Depending on the requirements of the regulation, changes in tank car design and limitations on the availability of shop capacity to undertake retrofits, as well as other possible regulations aimed at increasing rail safety, may lead to a significant increase in the costs of transporting crude oil and other hydrocarbons by rail and otherwise adversely affect our operations.    Political instability in areas where we operate can adversely affect our business. Some of the international areas in which we operate, and the partners with whom we operate, are politically less stable than other areas and partners and may be subject to civil unrest, conflict, insurgency, corruption, security risks and labor unrest. Political and civil unrest in North Africa and the Middle East has affected and may affect our operations in these areas as well as oil and gas markets generally. The threat of terrorism around the world also poses additional risks to the operations of the oil and gas industry.   Our oil and gas operations are subject to environmental risks and environmental laws and regulations that can result in significant costs and liabilities. Our oil and gas operations, like those of the industry, are subject to environmental risks such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose us to substantial liability for pollution or other environmental damage. Our operations are also subject to numerous U.S. federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. Non‑compliance with these laws and regulations may subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial clean-ups and natural resource damages or other liabilities. In addition, increasingly stringent environmental regulations have resulted and will likely continue to result in higher capital expenditures and operating expenses for us and the oil and gas industry in general. Similarly, the Corporation has material legal obligations to dismantle, remove and abandon production facilities and wells that will occur many years in the future, in most cases. These estimates may be impacted by future changes in regulations and other uncertainties.   Concerns have been raised in certain jurisdictions where we have operations concerning the safety and environmental impact of the drilling and development of shale oil and gas resources, particularly hydraulic fracturing, water usage, flaring of associated natural gas and air emissions. While we believe that these operations can be conducted safely and with minimal impact on the environment, regulatory bodies are responding to these concerns and may impose moratoriums and new regulations on such drilling operations that would likely have the effect of prohibiting or delaying such operations and increasing their cost.   Climate change initiatives may result in significant operational changes and expenditures, reduced demand for our products and adversely affect our business. We recognize that climate change is a global environmental concern. Continuing political and social attention to the issue of climate change has resulted in both existing and pending international agreements and national, regional or local legislation and regulatory measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions. These agreements and measures may require significant equipment modifications, operational changes, taxes, or purchase of emission credits to reduce emission of greenhouse gases from our operations, which may result in substantial capital expenditures and compliance, operating, maintenance and remediation costs. In addition, our production is used to produce petroleum fuels, which through normal customer use may result in the emission of greenhouse gases. Regulatory initiatives to reduce the use of these fuels may reduce our sales of crude oil and other hydrocarbons. The imposition and enforcement of stringent greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets could severely and adversely impact the oil and gas industry and significantly reduce the value of our business.    Our industry is highly competitive and many of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we have. The petroleum industry is highly competitive and very capital intensive. We encounter competition from numerous companies in each of our activities, including acquiring rights to explore for crude oil and natural gas. Many competitors,    15    including national oil companies, are larger and have substantially greater resources. We are also in competition with producers of other forms of energy. Increased competition for worldwide oil and gas assets has significantly increased the cost of acquiring oil and gas assets. In addition, competition for drilling services, technical expertise and equipment may affect the availability of technical personnel and drilling rigs, resulting in increased capital and operating costs.   Catastrophic events, whether naturally occurring or man‑made, may materially affect our operations and financial conditions. Our oil and gas operations are subject to unforeseen occurrences which have affected us from time to time and which may damage or destroy assets, interrupt operations and have other significant adverse effects. Examples of catastrophic risks include hurricanes, fires, explosions, blowouts, such as the third party accident at the Macondo prospect, pipeline interruptions and ruptures, severe weather, geological events, labor disputes or cyber‑attacks. Although we maintain insurance coverage against property and casualty losses, there can be no assurance that such insurance will adequately protect the Corporation against liability from all potential consequences and damages. Moreover, some forms of insurance may be unavailable in the future or be available only on terms that are deemed economically unacceptable.   Significant time delays between the estimated and actual occurrence of critical events associated with development projects may result in material negative economic consequences. The Corporation is involved in several large development projects and the completion of those projects may be delayed beyond what was originally anticipated. Such examples include, but are not limited to, delays in receiving necessary approvals from project members or regulatory agencies, timely access to necessary equipment, availability of necessary personnel and unfavorable weather conditions. This may lead to delays and differences between estimated and actual timing of critical events. These delays could impact information detailed in forward-looking statements, and may have material negative economic consequences.   Departures of key members from the Corporation’s senior management team, and/or difficulty in recruiting and retaining adequate numbers of experienced technical personnel, could negatively impact the Corporation’s ability to deliver its strategic goals. The derivation and monitoring of successful strategies and related policies may be negatively impacted by the departure of key members of senior management. Moreover, an inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of experienced technical and professional personnel in the necessary locations may prohibit the Corporation from executing its strategy in full or, in part, with a commensurate impact on shareholder value.   The Corporation is dependent on oilfield service companies for items including drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and skilled labor. An inability or significant delay in securing these services, or a high cost thereof, may result in material negative economic consequences. The availability and cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and skilled labor will fluctuate over time given the cyclical nature of the Exploration and Production industry. As a result, the Corporation may encounter difficulties in obtaining required services or could face an increase in cost. These consequences may impact the ability of the Corporation to run its operations and to deliver projects on time with the potential for material negative economic consequences.   Cyber‑attacks targeting computer, telecommunications systems, and infrastructure used by the oil and gas industry may materially impact our business and operations. Computers and telecommunication systems are used to conduct our exploration, development and production activities and have become an integral part of our business. We use these systems to analyze and store financial and operating data and to communicate within our company and with outside business partners. Cyber‑attacks could compromise our computer and telecommunications systems and result in disruptions to our business operations or the loss of our data and proprietary information. In addition, computers control oil and gas production, processing equipment, and distribution systems globally and are necessary to deliver our production to market. A cyber‑attack against these operating systems, or the networks and infrastructure on which they rely, could damage critical production, distribution and/or storage assets, delay or prevent delivery to markets, and make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions. As a result, a cyber-attack could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations. We routinely experience attempts by external parties to penetrate and attack our networks and systems. Although such attempts to date have not resulted in any material breaches, disruptions, or loss of business critical information, our systems and procedures for protecting against such attacks and mitigating such risks may prove to be insufficient in the future and such attacks could have an adverse impact on our business and operations.   16    Item 3. Legal Proceedings