Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  Below we supplement and revise the risk factors discussed in Part I, “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, as previously supplemented in Part II, “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. Such risks could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results, and are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we have deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or operating results.  The Company revised one risk factor and added two additional risk factors.    89    Table of Contents The Company revised the risk factor under the heading “We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure,” to better describe the scope of items for which we rely upon others. As revised, the risk factor is as follows:  We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as banking services, processing, and Internet connections and network access. Any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. Technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. We may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. Failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business.  The Company added the following risk factors:  Weakness in residential property values and mortgage loan markets could adversely affect us. Recent weakness in the secondary market for residential lending could have an adverse impact upon our profitability. Pricing may change rapidly impacting the value of loans in our warehouse and our portfolio. This has been most pronounced in subprime and Alt-A lending. We attempt to mitigate the direct effect of such risks by limiting the number of loans that we make to borrowers with low credit scores (except for Community Reinvestment Act loans), by seeking to minimize the combined loan-to-value ratios of loans held in our portfolio, and in certain cases by requiring private mortgage insurance. We are also streamlining our process to sell loans to minimize the time held in our loan warehouse. In December, 2006, we ceased originating 1st Lien Alt-A loans for our own portfolio. Furthermore, we ceased originating any 2nd lien Alt-A loans in March, 2007 and have tightened credit standards for many products over the past year. Nevertheless, no assurances can be given that such efforts will be successful or that we will not suffer indirect results.  Also, the effects of recent mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in real estate markets, could result in further price reductions in single family home prices and a lack of liquidity in refinancing markets. These factors could adversely impact the quality of our residential construction and residential mortgage portfolio in various ways, including creating discrepancies in value between the original appraisal and the value at time of sale, and by decreasing the value of the collateral for our mortgage loans.    90    Table of Contents We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. When we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. The remedies available to us against the originating broker or correspondent may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans against us, and we face the further risk that the originating broker or correspondent may not have the financial capacity to perform remedies that otherwise may be available to us. Therefore, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to recover our losses from the originating broker or correspondent. Recently, we have received an increased number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers as a result of borrower fraud and early borrower payment defaults. While we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, there can be no assurance that these steps will be effective nor impact risk associated with loans sold in the past. If repurchase and indemnity demands increase, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected.    91    Table of Contents  Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS