Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  Below we supplement the risk factors discussed in Part I, “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. Such risks could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results, and are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we have deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or operating results.  The Company added the following risk factor:  Proposed Regulatory Changes May Adversely Affect our Business  On July 15, 2009, the U.S. Treasury published a paper that describes its vision for financial regulatory reform. Several proposed changes to the regulatory system could adversely affect our business and the economies of the markets in which we operate. For example, one proposal set forth is the establishment of a consumer protection agency which would exercise authority under existing consumer laws, have broad rule writing powers to administer and carry out its purpose and objectives, have the power to exempt certain persons or consumer financial products from its purview, have the power to examine or require reports from certain persons to ensure compliance with such agency’s mandates and have primary enforcement action over its mandates. The application of these powers is unclear; however, it has been advocated in this paper that such an agency would standardize consumer financial products and permit unstandardized products to be offered under very limited circumstances, among other things. Such a limitation on the financial products we may offer may impact our ability to meet all of our client’s needs and lead to clients seeking financial solutions and products through nonbanking channels outside the scope of this agency. Additionally, the paper advocates that such an agency be able to mandate how much we may compensate     102    Table of Contents  our employees that sell certain financial products and the settings and circumstances under which such financial products may be sold to consumers. Consequently, the increased expense of complying with an additional regulatory agency and the inability to retain qualified employees may adversely affect profits. In another example, the proposed reform of the financial regulatory structure suggests that states be permitted to adopt consumer financial protections beyond what would be required under the federal structure promulgated by the new consumer protection agency. If this approach were permitted, our expenses associated with complying with differing state requirements could increase and our ability to provide for our client’s financial needs could be inhibited. Another proposed regulatory reform suggests removing barriers to interstate branching for national and state banks. If Congress were to adopt the provisions outlined in the Treasury’s publication, competition could intensify in markets in which we do business, specifically from new entrants in markets that have previously limited entry to banks that acquire existing banks in those markets.  Additionally, the Company deletes the risk factors under the captions “Treasury “Stress Tests” and Other Actions may Adversely Affect Bank Operations and Value of Shares” and “Federal bank regulatory agencies have directed us to increase our Tier 1 common equity as a result of the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program.” These risks have largely been eliminated as a result of the Company’s successful capital raising activities during the May and June of 2009 to implement the requirements of the SCAP.  Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS