Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described in this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or future results.    109    Table of Contents In addition, the Company amends two existing risk factors to reference additional information, and added a new risk factor as a result of the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act.  First, the Company amends its existing risk factor regarding credit ratings to reflect the recent announcement of Moody’s regarding the impact of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act. That risk factor, as amended, is as follows:  In 2009 and 2010, credit rating agencies downgraded the credit ratings of SunTrust Bank and SunTrust Banks, Inc. These downgrades and any subsequent downgrades could adversely impact the price and liquidity of our securities and could have an impact on our businesses and results of operations. Additionally, ratings agencies could further downgrade our credit rating as a result of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act.  Our credit ratings are an important factor in determining both the available volume and the cost of our wholesale funding. On March 5, 2009, Fitch lowered the credit ratings for SunTrust Banks, Inc. and SunTrust Bank from A+/F-1 to A-/F-1. On April 23, 2009, Moody’s downgraded the senior credit ratings for SunTrust Banks, Inc. and SunTrust Bank from A1/P-1 and Aa3/P-1, respectively, to Baa1/P-2 and A2/P-1, respectively. On April 28, 2009, S&P downgraded the credit ratings for SunTrust Banks, Inc. and SunTrust Bank from A/A-1 and A+/A-1, respectively to BBB+/A-2 and A-/A-2, respectively. On February 1, 2010, S&P downgraded SunTrust Banks, Inc’s. credit ratings to BBB/A-2 and SunTrust Bank’s credit ratings to BBB+/A-2. Our credit ratings remain on “Negative” outlook with Moody’s and Fitch, while S&P maintains a “Stable” outlook on our ratings. Additional downgrades are possible. Where our bank subsidiaries are providing forms of credit support such as letters of credit, standby lending arrangements or other forms of credit support, a decline in short-term credit ratings may prompt customers of our bank subsidiaries to seek replacement credit support from a higher rated institution. In April 2009, we experienced a downgrade which affected a part of our business which we discuss in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Liquidity Risk” section in the 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot predict whether existing customer relationships or opportunities for future relationships could be further affected by customers who choose to do business with a higher rated institution.  In addition, Moody’s announced on July 27, 2010 that as a result of the passage of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act, it would reconsider its systemic support assumption for some banks whose ratings were lifted through the recent financial crisis but may not be considered systemically supported outside of the crisis. Moody’s analysis has previously included an assumption that some banks will receive extraordinary support from regulators because they are deemed systemically important. As a result of the passage of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act, the ratings agencies may believe that it is less likely that the government would step in to support certain troubled firms because their failure would be less likely to trigger contagion and a systemic crisis. Therefore, Moody’s has placed the ratings of SunTrust Banks, Inc. and SunTrust Bank, along with those of nine other regional banks, on review for possible downgrade. Similarly, S&P announced on May 25, 2010 that a full review of the impact of the legislation on the banking system could last through the end of the year and potentially into 2011. If, in their view, there is any mismatch between the stand-alone credit profile and the level of support the government might provide in a crisis, S&P may place some financial institutions’ ratings on review for downgrade.  Second, the Company amends its existing factor regarding legislation and regulation to reflect the impact of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act. That risk factor, is as follows:  Recently enacted legislation, legislation enacted in the future, or any proposed federal programs subject us to increased regulation and may adversely affect us.  On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced a program under the EESA pursuant to which it would make senior preferred stock investments in participating financial institutions (the “CPP”).  Because we participate in the CPP, we are subject to increased regulation, and we face additional regulations or changes to regulations to which we are subject as a result of our participation. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. For example, participation in the CPP limits (without the consent of the U.S. Treasury) our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. In addition, the EESA contains, among other things, significant restrictions on the payment of executive compensation, and this may have an adverse effect on the retention or recruitment of key members of senior management. Also, the cumulative dividend payable under the preferred stock that we issued to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to the CPP increases from 5% to 9% after 5 years. Additionally, we may not deduct interest paid on our preferred stock for income tax purposes.  Recent amendments to Federal Reserve Regulation E will begin to apply to us on July 1, 2010 and will limit the circumstances when we will be able to charge our clients overdraft fees.    110    Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Reform Act became effective on July 21, 2010, although many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act have delayed effectiveness or will not become effective until the relevant federal agencies issue new rules to implement the Dodd-Frank Reform Act. Nevertheless, the Dodd-Frank Reform Act may have a material adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole and on SunTrust’s business, results of operations and financial condition.  For example, the Dodd-Frank Reform Act sets forth the establishment of a consumer protection agency which would exercise authority under existing consumer laws, have broad rule writing powers to administer and carry out its purpose and objectives, and have primary enforcement action over its mandates. How this new consumer protection agency might use its powers is unclear; however, its proponents have advocated that it should standardize consumer financial products and limit un-standardized products to very limited circumstances, among other things. Such a limitation on the financial products we may offer may impact our ability to meet all of our clients’ needs and lead to clients seeking financial solutions and products through nonbanking channels outside the scope of this agency.  Other aspects of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act may have a significant impact on us. These include provisions which: (1) amend the Truth in Lending Act with respect to mortgage originations, including originator compensation, minimum repayment standards, and prepayment considerations; (2) eliminate trust preferred securities as a permitted component of a bank holding company’s Tier 1 capital after a three-year phase-in period which begins January 1, 2013; (3) create a financial stability oversight council that will recommend to the Federal Reserve increasingly strict rules for capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management and other requirements as companies grow in size and complexity; (4) provide for enhanced supervision of large bank holding companies (i.e., those with over $50 billion in total consolidated assets), with more stringent supervisory standards to be applied to them; (5) restrict variable-rate lending by requiring the ability to repay to be determined for variable-rate loans by using the maximum rate that will apply during the first five years of a variable-rate loan term, and making more loans subject to provisions for higher cost loans, new disclosures, and certain other revisions; and (6) direct the Federal Reserve to issue rules which are expected to limit debit card interchange fees. These provisions may limit the types of products we offer, the methods of offering them, and prices at which they are offered. They may also increase the cost of offering these products. These provisions likely will affect different financial institutions in different ways, and therefore may also affect the competitive landscape.  Finally, the Company adds a new risk factor regarding potential increases in deposit insurance assessments as a result of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act. That risk factor is as follows:  SunTrust Bank May be Subject to Higher Deposit Insurance Assessments.  Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Reform Act, the FDIC must amend its regulations regarding the assessment for federal deposit insurance to base such assessments on the average total consolidated assets of insured depository institutions during the assessment period, less the average tangible equity of the institution during the assessment period. Presently, we are assessed only on our deposits, and this change may result in a substantial increase in the base to which the insurance rate is applied. The Dodd-Frank Reform Act also eliminates Section 7(b)(2)(D) of the FDA, which provided that no insured depository institution may be barred from the lowest-risk category in the FDIC’s deposit insurance assessment system solely because of size. The FDIC has also proposed regulations that would change the way the deposit insurance assessment rate is applied to banks to a system that is risk-based. This makes a higher rate assessment possible. The cumulative effect of these provisions may be a significant increase in the deposit insurance assessment which may adversely affect our results.    111    Table of Contents Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS