Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described in this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or future results.  In addition, the Company amends two existing risk factors to reference additional information.    111    Table of Contents   First, the Company amends its existing risk factor regarding credit ratings. That risk factor, as amended, is as follows:  Any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets.  Although our issuer ratings are still rated investment grade by the major rating agencies, those ratings were downgraded during 2009 and 2010 by the major rating agencies. These rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. In light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the housing and financial markets, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. Our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital.  In addition, on November 1, 2010, Moody’s removed all systemic support assumptions from SunTrust’s ratings while at the same time upgrading SunTrust’s stand-alone bank financial strength rating. The combination of these two actions resulted in the confirmation of SunTrust Banks, Inc.’s senior credit ratings at Baa1/P 2. However, the combination of the removal of systemic support assumptions and the upgrade of the stand-alone bank financial strength rating did lead to a one-notch downgrade of the long-term and short-term senior credit ratings for SunTrust Bank from A2/P 1 to A3/P-2, respectively. Moody’s concurrently upgraded the outlook for SunTrust’s ratings from “Negative” to “Stable”. This ratings action concludes Moody’s review of its systemic support assumptions for certain banks following the passage of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act.  Moody’s downgrade relates to their previous announcement on July 27, 2010 that as a result of the passage of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act, Moody’s would reconsider its systemic support assumption for ten regional banks, including SunTrust, whose ratings were lifted through the recent financial crisis but may not be considered systemically supported outside of the crisis. Moody’s analysis has previously included an assumption that some banks will receive extraordinary support from regulators because they are deemed systemically important. Our credit ratings remain on “Stable” outlook with S&P, DBRS, and Fitch, in addition to Moody’s. Additional downgrades are possible although not anticipated given the “Stable” outlook from all four rating agencies.  Second, the Company amends its existing factor regarding certain aspects of mortgage lending. That risk factor, as amended, is as follows:  We are subject to certain risks related to originating and selling mortgages. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could harm our results of operations. We are also subject to risks related to delays in the foreclosure process.  We originate and often sell mortgage loans. When we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. The remedies available to us against the originating broker or correspondent may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans against us, and we face the further risk that the originating broker or correspondent may not have the financial capacity to perform remedies that otherwise may be available to us. Therefore, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to recover our losses from the originating broker or correspondent. We have received an increased number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers as a result of borrower fraud. This increase in repurchase demands has resulted in an increase in the amount of accrued losses for repurchases. While we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, these steps likely will not be effective or reduce risk associated with loans sold in the past. If repurchase and indemnity demands increase materially, our results of operations may be adversely affected.  When we originate a mortgage loan, we do so with the expectation that if the borrower defaults then our ultimate loss is mitigated by the value of the collateral which secures the mortgage loan. Our ability to mitigate our losses on such defaulted loans depends upon our ability to promptly foreclose upon such collateral after an appropriate cure period. In some states, the large number of foreclosures which have occurred has resulted in delays in foreclosing. In addition, certain parties have discussed a mandatory moratorium to stop foreclosures. Any delay in the foreclosure process will adversely affect us by increasing our expenses related to carrying such assets, such as taxes, insurance, and other carrying costs, and exposes us to losses as a result of potential additional declines in the value of such collateral.    112    Table of Contents     Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS