Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described in this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or future results.  In addition, the Company amends two existing risk factors to reference additional information.  We are subject to risks related to delays in the foreclosure process.  When we originate a mortgage loan, we do so with the expectation that if the borrower defaults then our ultimate loss is mitigated by the value of the collateral which secures the mortgage loan. Our ability to mitigate our losses on such defaulted loans depends upon our ability to promptly foreclose upon such collateral after an appropriate cure period. In some states, the large number of foreclosures which have occurred has resulted in delays in foreclosing. In some instances, our practices or failures to adhere to our policies has contributed to these delays—refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Nonperforming Assets.” Any delay in the foreclosure process will adversely affect us by increasing our expenses related to carrying such assets, such as taxes, insurance, and other carrying costs, and exposes us to losses as a result of potential additional declines in the value of such collateral.  On April 13, 2011 SunTrust Banks, Inc., SunTrust Bank and SunTrust Mortgage, Inc. entered into a Consent Order with the Federal Reserve in which SunTrust Banks, Inc., SunTrust Bank and SunTrust Mortgage, Inc. agreed to strengthen oversight of, and improve, risk management, internal audit and compliance programs concerning the residential mortgage loan servicing, loss mitigation and foreclosure activities of SunTrust Mortgage, Inc. See Note 14, “Contingencies— Consent Order with the Federal Reserve,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Consent Order.  We completed an internal review of SunTrust Mortgage, Inc.’s residential foreclosure processes, and as a result of the review, steps have been taken to improve upon those processes. Under the terms of the Consent Order SunTrust Bank and SunTrust Mortgage, Inc. also agreed to retain an independent consultant to conduct a review of residential foreclosure actions pending at any time during the period from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2010 for loans serviced by SunTrust Mortgage, Inc., to identify any errors, misrepresentations or deficiencies, determine whether any instances so identified resulted in financial injury, and then make any appropriate remediation, reimbursement or adjustment. Until the results of this review are known, we cannot reasonably estimate financial reimbursements or adjustments that may be required.  The Federal Reserve has said that it believed monetary sanctions would be appropriate as a result of its review that preceded the Consent Order, and that it planned to announce monetary sanctions. It has not made any further announcements nor has it provided us with information related to timing or amount of any potential monetary sanctions.  We may be subject to additional borrower and non-borrower litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny related to our past and current foreclosure activities. This scrutiny may extend beyond our pending foreclosure matters to issues arising out of alleged irregularities with respect to previously completed foreclosure activities.    92    Table of Contents We expect that our costs will increase modestly in 2011 as a result of the additional resources necessary to perform the foreclosure process assessment, revise affidavit filings and make any other operational changes. This may result in higher noninterest expense, including higher servicing costs and legal expenses, in our Mortgage line of business. In addition, process changes required as a result of our assessment could increase our default servicing costs over the longer term. Finally, the time to complete foreclosure sales temporarily may increase, and this may result in an increase in nonperforming assets and servicing advances and may impact the collectability of such advances and the value of our MSR asset. Accordingly, delays in foreclosure sales, including any delays beyond those currently anticipated, our process enhancements and any issues that may arise out of alleged irregularities in our foreclosure processes could increase the costs associated with our mortgage operations.  We may not pay dividends on your common stock.  Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so.  Further, in February 2009, the Federal Reserve advised bank holding companies that safety and soundness considerations required that dividends be substantially reduced or eliminated. Since that time, the Federal Reserve has indicated that increased capital distributions would generally not be considered prudent in the absence of a well-developed capital plan and a capital position that would remain strong even under adverse conditions. As a result, we expect that any substantial increase in our dividend will require the approval of the Federal Reserve.  Additionally, our obligations under the warrant agreements (that we entered into with the U.S. Treasury as part of the CPP) will increase to the extent that we pay dividends prior to December 31, 2018 exceeding $0.54 per share per year, which was the amount we paid when we first participated in the CPP. Specifically, the exercise price and the number of shares to be issued upon exercise of the warrants will be adjusted proportionately (that is, adversely to the Company) as specified in a formula contained in the warrant agreements.      Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS