Item 1A. Risk Factors included herein, if any, and included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 is available on our 49Table of Contents  website at www.nobleenergyinc.com.Item 4. Controls and Procedures Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures by our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report, each of them has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are effective. There were no changes in internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter covered by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Part II. Other InformationItem 1. Legal Proceedings COGCC During 2011, we received two Notices of Alleged Violation (NOAV) from the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission (COGCC) regarding the reporting of the presence of hydrogen sulfide to the COGCC and local government designee within certain areas of our Piceance Basin and Grover field operations. We are in ongoing discussions with the COGCC in an effort to favorably resolve this matter but we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome at this time. However, we believe that the final resolution will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.See Item 1. Financial Statements – Note 13. Commitments and Contingencies. Item 1A. Risk FactorsThere have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in Item 1A. Risk Factors of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 or Item 1A. Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds