Item 1A. Risk Factors included herein, if any, and included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 is available on our website at www.nobleenergyinc.com.Item 4. Controls and Procedures Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures by our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report, each of them has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are effective. There were no changes in internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter covered by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.38Table of Contents   Part II. Other InformationItem 1. Legal Proceedings West Virginia Matter   In March 2013, we received seven Notices of Violation (NOV) and two Administrative Orders (Orders) from the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection Office of Oil and Gas (OOG) regarding the unintentional discharge of a mixture of freshwater and produced water that occurred on or about the evening of February 22, 2013 from one of our permitted water storage facilities in Marshall County, West Virginia. At this time, the OOG has not established a proposed penalty for these NOVs or Orders. Given the uncertainty in administrative actions of this nature, we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of this action at this time. However, we believe that the resolution of these proceedings through settlement or adverse judgment will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.Colorado Matter In April 2013, we received a proposed Early Settlement Agreement (ESA) from Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment's Air Pollution Control Division to resolve allegations of noncompliance with our 2011 Ozone and Non-Ozone season spreadsheet submissions pursuant to Air Quality Control Commission Regulation 7. The ESA, which provides for an opportunity to further discuss the offer of settlement, has not yet been executed. At present, the ESA seeks payment of a reduced penalty of $112,000. Given the inherent uncertainty in administrative actions of this nature, we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of this action at this time. However, we believe that the resolution of these proceedings through settlement or adverse judgment will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.Item 1A. Risk FactorsThere have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in Item 1A. Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds