Item 1A. Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 is available on our website at www.nobleenergyinc.com.Item 4. Controls and ProceduresBased on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures by our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report, each of them has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are effective. There were no changes in internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter covered by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.39Part II. Other InformationItem 1. Legal ProceedingsColorado Air Matter In April 2015, we entered into a joint consent decree (Consent Decree) with the US Environmental Protection Agency, US Department of Justice, and State of Colorado to improve emission control systems at a number of our condensate storage tanks that are part of our upstream oil and natural gas operations within the Non-Attainment Area of the DJ Basin. The Consent Decree is subject to a 30 day public comment period before it may be considered for entry by the Court. The Consent Decree, which alleges violations of the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act and Colorado’s federal approved State Implementation Plan, specifically Colorado Air Quality Control Commission Regulation Number 7, will require the performance of certain injunctive relief activities, completion of mitigation projects and supplemental environmental projects (SEP), and payment of a civil penalty. The value of the settlement consists of $4.95 million in civil penalties, $4.5 million in mitigation projects, and $4 million in SEPs. The value associated with the injunctive relief is not yet quantifiable as it will be determined in accordance with the outcome of evaluations on the adequate design, operation, and maintenance of certain aspects of tank systems to handle potential peak instantaneous vapor flow rates between now and mid-2017.Compliance with the Consent Decree could result in the temporary shut in or permanent plugging and abandonment of certain wells and associated tank batteries. The Consent Decree sets forth a detailed compliance schedule with deadlines for achievement of milestones through early 2019. The Consent Decree further contains requirements for ongoing inspection and monitoring, in addition to existing Colorado regulatory requirements. Inspection and monitoring findings may influence decisions to temporarily shut in or permanently plug and abandon wells and associated tank batteries. We have concluded that the penalties, injunctive relief, and mitigation expenditures that resulted from this settlement did not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Item 1A. Risk FactorsThere have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in Item 1A. Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds