ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS    You should carefully consider the risks described under “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 (“2012 Form 10-K”). These risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our Common Stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. These risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under “Forward-Looking Statements” above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.    The risk factor contained in our 2012 Form 10-K titled “The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has and will subject us to substantial additional federal regulation and we cannot predict the effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition” is hereby updated to note that on June 3, 2013, Prudential Financial received notice of a proposed determination by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “Council”) that it should be subject to stricter prudential regulatory standards and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (as a “Covered Company”) pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. On July 2, 2013, Prudential Financial provided notice to the Council requesting a nonpublic written and oral evidentiary hearing before the Council to contest the Council’s proposed determination. The written and oral evidentiary hearing was held and completed as of July 30, 2013. According to the regulations, the Council will make a final determination on the Company’s status as a Covered Company within 60 days after the hearing.    In addition, the risk factor titled “Foreign governmental actions could subject us to additional regulation” is hereby updated to note that on July 18, 2013, the Financial Stability Board, consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the G20 nations, identified the Company as a global systemically important insurer (“G-SII”).    For additional information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Executive Summary.”      ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS