ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS    You should carefully consider the risks described under “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 (“2012 Form 10-K”). These risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our Common Stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. These risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under “Forward-Looking Statements” above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.    The risk factor contained in our 2012 Form 10-K titled “The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has and will subject us to substantial additional federal regulation and we cannot predict the effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition” is hereby updated to note that on September 19, 2013, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “Council”) made a final determination that Prudential Financial should be subject to stricter prudential regulatory standards and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (as a “Covered Company”) pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. On October 18, 2013, the Company confirmed that it would not seek to rescind the final determination of the Council. As a Covered Company under the Dodd-Frank Act, Prudential Financial is now subject to supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and to stricter prudential regulatory standards, which include or will include requirements (some of which are subject to future rulemaking) regarding risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, stress-testing, overall risk management, resolution plans, early remediation and credit concentration; and may also include additional standards regarding capital, public disclosure, short-term debt limits and other related subjects as appropriate. The Company must also seek pre-approval from the Federal Reserve for acquisition of certain companies engaged in financial activities.    The risk factor titled “Foreign governmental actions could subject us to additional regulation” is hereby updated to note that in October 2013, the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (the “IAIS”) announced that it expects to develop a risk-based global insurance capital standard applicable to internationally active insurance groups (“IAIGs”) by 2016, with full implementation scheduled to begin in 2019. In addition, the IAIS seeks to promote the financial stability of IAIGs by endorsing: uniform standards for insurer corporate governance and enterprise risk management; group-wide supervision of IAIGs; a framework for group capital adequacy assessment that accounts for group-wide risks; additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance groups; and the establishment of ongoing supervisory colleges. In October 2013, several of the Company’s domestic and foreign insurance regulators convened a supervisory college. The purpose of the supervisory college is to promote ongoing supervisory coordination, facilitate the sharing of information among regulators and to enhance each regulator’s understanding of the Company’s risk profile.    The risk factor titled “Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability” is hereby updated to note that the IAIS is developing a model framework (“ComFrame”) for the supervision of IAIGs that contemplates “group wide supervision” across national boundaries. ComFrame requires each IAIG to conduct its own risk and solvency assessment (“ORSA”) to monitor and manage its overall solvency. Also, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) has recently adopted the NAIC Risk Management and ORSA model act which, following enactment at the state level, will require a large insurer beginning in 2015 to at least annually assess the adequacy of its and its group’s risk management and current and future solvency position.    232    Table of Contents In addition, the NAIC, the New York State Department of Financial Services and other regulators recently increased their focus on life insurers’ use of captive reinsurance companies. We cannot predict what, if any, changes may result from these reviews. If applicable insurance laws are changed in a way that impairs the use of captive reinsurance companies, our ability to write certain products and efficiently manage their associated risks could be adversely affected and we may need to increase prices on certain products, modify certain products or find alternate financing sources, any of which could adversely affect our competitiveness, capital and financial position and results of operations.    For additional information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Executive Summary—Regulatory Developments.”      ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS