ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors That May Affect Future Results   Our operating results and financial condition could be harmed if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated.   Visibility into our markets is limited. Our quarterly sales and operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast. In addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future fiscal quarters are often based on the expected seasonality or cyclicality of our markets. However, the markets we serve do not always experience the seasonality or cyclicality that we expect. Any decline in our customers’ markets or in general economic conditions would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. The broader semiconductor market is one of the drivers for our electronic measurement business, and therefore, a decrease in the semiconductor market could harm our electronic measurement business. Also, if our customers’ markets decline, we may not be able to collect on outstanding amounts due to us. Such decline could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price, and could limit our ability to sustain profitability. Also, in such an environment, pricing pressures could intensify. Since a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to sales, research and development and manufacturing costs, if we were unable to respond quickly enough these pricing pressures could further reduce our gross margins.   The actions that we have taken in order to reduce costs could have long-term adverse effects on our business.   We have completed our program to transition our company to a reduced cost structure. These reductions and regular ongoing evaluations of our cost structure, could have the effect of reducing our talent pool and available resources and, consequently, could have long-term effects on our business by decreasing or slowing improvements in our products, affecting our ability to respond to customers, limiting our ability to increase production quickly if and when the demand for our products increases and limiting our ability to hire and retain key personnel. These circumstances could cause our income to be lower than it otherwise might be and, as a result, adversely affect our stock price.   If we do not introduce successful new products and services in a timely manner, our products and services will become obsolete, and our operating results will suffer.   We generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and changing industry standards. In addition, many of the markets in which we operate are seasonal and cyclical. Without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services    29      Table of Contents   will become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. The success of our new products and services will depend on several factors, including our ability to:   · properly identify customer needs;   · innovate and develop new technologies, services and applications;   · successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner;   · manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes on time;   · differentiate our offerings from our competitors’ offerings;   · price our products competitively;   · anticipate our competitors’ development of new products, services or technological innovations; and   · control product quality in our manufacturing process.   Dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourcing other portions of our supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation. Dependence on outsourced information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively.   As part of our efforts to streamline operations and to cut costs, we have been outsourcing aspects of our manufacturing processes and other functions and will continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. If our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and our reputation could suffer. For example, during a market upturn, our contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our demand requirements, which may preclude us from fulfilling our customers’ orders on a timely basis. The ability of these manufacturers to perform is largely outside of our control. In addition, we outsource significant portions of our information technology (“IT”) function and other administrative functions. Since IT is critical to our operations, any failure to perform on the part of the IT providers could impair our ability to operate effectively. In addition to the risks outlined above, problems with manufacturing or IT outsourcing could result in lower revenues, unexecuted efficiencies, and impact our results of operations and our stock price. Much of our outsourcing takes place in developing countries and, as a result, may be subject to geopolitical uncertainty.   Failure to adjust our purchases due to changing market conditions or failure to estimate our customers’ demand could adversely affect our income.   Our income could be harmed if we are unable to adjust our purchases to market fluctuations, including those caused by the seasonal or cyclical nature of the markets in which we operate. The sale of our products and services are dependent, to a large degree, on customers whose industries are subject to seasonal or cyclical trends in the demand for their products. For example, the consumer electronics market is particularly volatile, making demand difficult to anticipate. During a market upturn, we may not be able to purchase sufficient supplies or components to meet increasing product demand, which could materially affect our results. In addition, some of the parts that require custom design are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. Should a supplier cease manufacturing such a component, we would be forced to reengineer our product. In addition to discontinuing parts, suppliers may also extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. In order to secure components for the production of products, we may continue to enter into non-cancelable purchase commitments with vendors, or at times make advance payments to suppliers, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to declining market demands. Prior commitments of this type have resulted in an excess of parts when demand for our communications and electronics products has decreased. If demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges.   Our income may suffer if our manufacturing capacity does not match the demand for our products.   Because we cannot immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to rapidly changing market conditions, when demand does not meet our expectations, our manufacturing capacity will likely exceed our production requirements. If, during a general market upturn or an upturn in one of our segments, we cannot increase our manufacturing    30      Table of Contents   capacity to meet product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner. This inability could materially and adversely limit our ability to improve our results. By contrast, if during an economic downturn we had excess manufacturing capacity, then our fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity would adversely affect our income.   Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations.   Because we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a majority of our total revenue. In addition, many of our employees, contract manufacturers, suppliers, job functions and manufacturing facilities are increasingly located outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including:   · interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers;   · changes in foreign currency exchange rates;   · changes in a specific country’s or region’s political, economic or other conditions;   · trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;   · negative consequences from changes in tax laws;   · difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;   · differing labor regulations;   · differing protection of intellectual property;   · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and   · geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war.   We centralized most of our accounting processes to two locations: India and Malaysia. These processes include general accounting, cost accounting, accounts payable and accounts receivables functions. If conditions change in those countries, it may adversely affect operations, including impairing our ability to pay our suppliers and collect our receivables. Our results of operations, as well as our liquidity, may be adversely affected and possible delays may occur in reporting financial results. In addition, although the majority of our products are priced and paid for in U.S. dollars, a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, are paid in local currencies. Our hedging programs reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, within any given twelve month period, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, and therefore fluctuations in exchange rates, including those caused by currency controls, could impact our business operating results and financial condition by resulting in lower revenue or increased expenses. However, for expenses beyond that twelve month period, our hedging strategy does not mitigate our exposure.   Our business will suffer if we are not able to retain and hire key personnel.   Our future success depends partly on the continued service of our key research, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing, executive and administrative personnel. If we fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these personnel, we will not be able to maintain or expand our business. The markets in which we operate are very dynamic, and our businesses continue to respond with reorganizations, workforce reductions and site closures. We believe our pay levels are very competitive within the regions that we operate. However, there is also intense competition for certain highly technical specialties in geographic areas where we continue to recruit, and it may become more difficult to retain our key employees.   The impact of consolidation of competitors in the test and measurement market is difficult to predict and may harm our business.   The test and measurement industry is intensely competitive and has been subject to increasing consolidation. For instance, in November 2007, Danaher Corporation, one of our competitors, completed the acquisition of Tektronix, Inc., another of our competitors. Consolidation in the test and measurement industry could result in existing competitors    31      Table of Contents   increasing their market share through business combinations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to compete successfully in an increasingly consolidated industry and cannot predict with certainty how industry consolidation will affect our competitors or us.   Our acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures may result in financial results that are different than expected.   In the normal course of business, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties relating to possible acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures, and generally expect to complete several transactions per year. For example, last year we completed a number of acquisitions, including the acquisition of Stratagene Corporation in our third fiscal quarter. As a result of such transactions, our financial results may differ from our own or the investment community’s expectations in a given fiscal quarter, or over the long term. Such transactions often have post-closing arrangements including but not limited to post-closing adjustments, transition services, escrows or indemnifications, the financial results of which can be difficult to predict. In addition, acquisitions and strategic alliances may require us to integrate a different company culture, management team and business infrastructure. We may have difficulty developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company in a way that enhances the performance of our combined businesses or product lines to realize the value from expected synergies. Depending on the size and complexity of an acquisition, our successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors, including:   · the retention of key employees;   · the management of facilities and employees in different geographic areas;   · the retention of key customers;   · the compatibility of our sales programs and facilities within those of the acquired company; and   · the compatibility of our existing infrastructure with that of an acquired company.   A successful divestiture depends on various factors, including our ability to:   · effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to the purchaser;   · identify and separate the intellectual property to be divested from the intellectual property that we wish to keep; and   · reduce fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets or business.   Future impairment of the value of purchased assets and goodwill could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results. And, our inability to timely and effectively apply our systems of internal controls to an acquired business could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations.   In addition, if customers of the divested business do not receive the same level of service from the new owners, this may adversely affect our other businesses to the extent that these customers also purchase other Agilent products. All of these efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. Further, if market conditions or other factors lead us to change our strategic direction, we may not realize the expected value from such transactions. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively impacted.   Environmental contamination from past operations could subject us to unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties involved and environmental contamination caused by ongoing operations could subject us to substantial liabilities in the future.   Some of our properties are undergoing remediation by the Hewlett-Packard Company (“HP”) for subsurface contaminations that were known at the time of our separation from HP. HP has agreed to retain the liability for this subsurface contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify us with respect to claims arising out of that contamination. HP will have access to our properties to perform remediation. While HP has agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at those properties, remediation activities and subsurface contamination may require us to incur    32      Table of Contents   unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. We cannot be sure that HP will continue to fulfill its indemnification or remediation obligations. In addition, the determination of the existence and cost of any additional contamination caused by us could involve costly and time-consuming negotiations and litigation.   We have agreed to indemnify HP for any liability associated with contamination from past operations at all other properties transferred from HP to us other than those properties currently undergoing remediation by HP. While we are not aware of any material liabilities associated with any potential subsurface contamination at any of those properties, subsurface contamination may exist, and we may be exposed to material liability as a result of the existence of that contamination.   Our current and historical manufacturing processes involve, or have involved, the use of substances regulated under various international, federal, state and local laws governing the environment. As a result, we may become subject to liabilities for environmental contamination, and these liabilities may be substantial. While we have divested substantially all of our semiconductor related businesses to Avago and Verigy and regardless of indemnification arrangements with those parties, we may still become subject to liabilities for historical environmental contamination related to those businesses. Although our policy is to apply strict standards for environmental protection at our sites inside and outside the U.S., even if the sites outside the U.S. are not subject to regulations imposed by foreign governments, we may not be aware of all conditions that could subject us to liability.   Our customers and we are subject to various governmental regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant expenses, and if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain regulations, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties.   Our businesses are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations, including but not limited to health and safety, packaging, product content, labor and import/export regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations, product recalls or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. In addition, because many of our products are regulated or sold into regulated industries, we must comply with additional regulations in marketing our products.   Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the International Standards Organization, as well as regulation by other agencies such as the U.S. Federal Communications Commission. We also must comply with work safety rules. If we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our businesses could be harmed.   Some of our chemical analysis products are used in conjunction with chemicals whose manufacture, processing, distribution and notification requirements are regulated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under the Toxic Substances Control Act, and by regulatory bodies in other countries with laws similar to the Toxic Substances Control Act. We must conform the manufacture, processing, distribution of and notification about these chemicals to these laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in all countries as these requirements change. If we fail to comply with these requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, then we could be made to pay civil penalties, face criminal prosecution and, in some cases, be prohibited from distributing our products in commerce until the products or component substances are brought into compliance.   We are subject to laws and regulations, and failure to address or comply with these laws and regulations could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers.   We have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For example, many government contracts contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. We are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. A failure to comply with these regulations might result in suspension of these contracts, or administrative penalties.   A number of our products from our bio-analytical measurement business are subject to regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and certain similar foreign regulatory agencies. If we or any of our suppliers or distributors fail to comply with FDA and other applicable regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face, among other things, adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers, investigations or    33      Table of Contents   notices of non-compliance, fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities or the imposition of operating restrictions, increased difficulty in obtaining required FDA clearances or approvals; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers or the inability to sell our products.   Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services.   From time to time, third parties may claim that one or more of our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. We analyze and take action in response to such claims on a case by case basis. Any dispute or litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of our technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. A claim of intellectual property infringement could force us to enter into a costly or restrictive license agreement, which might not be available under acceptable terms or at all, or could subject us to significant damages or to an injunction against development and sale of certain of our products or services. Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of intellectual property infringement. In certain of our businesses we rely on third party intellectual property licenses and we cannot ensure that these licenses will be available to us in the future on favorable terms or at all.   Third parties may infringe our intellectual property and we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights.   Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. We rely on various intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish our proprietary rights. If we do not enforce our intellectual property rights successfully our competitive position may suffer which could harm our operating results.   Our pending patent applications, and our pending copyright and trademark registration applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. In addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage.   We may need to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties. Our competitive position may be harmed if we cannot detect infringement and enforce our intellectual property rights quickly or at all. In some circumstances, enforcement may not be available to us because an infringer has a dominant intellectual property position or for other business reasons. In addition, competitors might avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights or by developing non-infringing competing technologies. Intellectual property rights and our ability to enforce them may be unavailable or limited in some countries which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share and could result in lost revenues. Furthermore, some of our intellectual property is licensed to others which allows them to compete with us using that intellectual property.   34      Table of Contents   We have received a Revenue Agent’s Report from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for fiscal years 2000 through 2002 claiming a significant increase in our U.S. taxable income. An adverse outcome of this examination or any future examinations involving similar claims could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.   Our U.S. federal income tax returns for 2000 through 2002 have been under audit by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). In August 2007, we received a Revenue Agent’s Report (“RAR”). In the RAR, the IRS proposes to assess a net tax deficiency, after applying available net operating losses from the years under audit and undisputed tax credits, for those years of approximately $405 million, plus penalties of approximately $160 million and interest. If the IRS were to fully prevail, our net operating loss and tax credits generated in recent years would be utilized earlier than they otherwise would have been and our annual effective tax rate will have increased as a result. The RAR addresses several issues. One issue, however, relating to the use of Agilent’s brand name by our foreign affiliates, accounts for a majority of the claimed tax deficiency. We believe that the claimed IRS adjustment for this issue in particular is inconsistent with applicable tax laws and that we have meritorious defenses to this claim. Therefore, we have not included any tax for this item in our tax provision for 2007 or for the first three quarters of 2008. We have filed a formal protest and expect to meet with the Appeals Office. In the protest, we opposed the claim associated with Agilent’s brand name, and most of the other claimed adjustments proposed in the RAR, vigorously. In April of 2008, we received a rebuttal to our formal protest. The final resolution of the proposed adjustments is uncertain and may take several years. Based on current information, it is our opinion that the ultimate disposition of these matters is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. However, if the ultimate determination of taxes owed is in excess of the tax provisions we have recorded in connection with the proposed assessment, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be adversely affected.   Our $1.5 billion repurchase obligation under our World Trade financing arrangement is due on November 17, 2008. An alternative financing transaction or the use of cash currently outside of the United States to satisfy, in whole or in part, the repurchase obligation may result in higher costs to us which could have a material adverse effect.   On March 18, 2008, Agilent Technologies World Trade, Inc. (“World Trade”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent, received a notice from Merrill Lynch Capital Services, Inc. (“Merrill”) advising World Trade that it has accelerated to July 16, 2008 (the “Repurchase Date”) the obligation of World Trade to repurchase 15,000 Class A Preferred Shares of Agilent Technologies (Cayco) Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent, at a repurchase price of $1.5 billion. On June 27, 2008 and August 7, 2008, Agilent, World Trade and Merrill entered into amendments to certain of the World Trade financing agreements, pursuant to which, among other things, the Repurchase Date was extended from July 16, 2008 to November 17, 2008.   We are required to satisfy the repurchase obligation on or before November 17, 2008. As of July 31, 2008, we had approximately $1.6 billion of unrestricted cash and $1.6 billion of restricted cash that could be used to repurchase or redeem the Class A Preferred Shares. However, most of this cash is overseas and would need to be repatriated to the United States in order to be used to satisfy the repurchase obligation. We may pursue other financing transactions to satisfy the repurchase obligation. However, in light of recent volatility in the financial markets and general economic conditions, there can be no assurance that an alternative financing transaction will be available to us on acceptable terms. In any case, the costs associated with a repatriation and/or borrowing of additional funds could result in a material adverse impact to our business operating results and financial condition.   The repurchase obligation that is being accelerated relates to the Master Repurchase Agreement and related Confirmation dated March 17, 2008 between World Trade and a counterparty, which amended the original agreement dated January 27, 2006, as amended on December 7, 2007. World Trade sold the Class A Preferred Shares to the counterparty for a total price of $1.5 billion, the amount of the aggregate liquidation preference. Prior to the acceleration, World Trade was obligated to repurchase the Class A Preferred Shares from the counterparty on January 27, 2011 for 100% of their aggregate liquidation preference, subject to Merrill’s right to accelerate that repurchase by written notice to us to a repurchase date to occur no earlier than 120 days from the date of any notice.   We have issued $600 million in a debt offering and entered into a credit facility and may incur other debt in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.   In October 2007, we issued $600 million in senior unsecured notes. In addition, in May 2007, we entered into a five-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility under which we may borrow up to $300 million. As of July 31, 2008, we had borrowed $210 million under the credit facility. We may borrow in the future and use the proceeds from any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, future acquisitions, repurchases of our outstanding shares of common stock or   35      Table of Contents   expansion of our business. As noted above, we may enter into an additional financing arrangement in order to satisfy our $1.5 billion repurchase obligation under our World Trade financing structure on or before November 17, 2008.   Our incurrence of this debt may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition by, among other things:   · increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive pressures and to adverse economic and industry conditions;   · requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; and   · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry.   Our current revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to create liens on our assets and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, and requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. In addition, our long-term non-convertible debt includes covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. If we breach any of the covenants under our long-term debt or our revolving credit facility and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable.   An “event of default” will occur under the Five-Year Credit Agreement if our $1.5 billion repurchase obligation under our World Trade financing arrangement is not satisfied three business days prior to the date the obligation is due. If an “event of default” occurred and we were no longer able to borrow under the Five-Year Credit Agreement, our ability to satisfy our cash requirements in the United States could be adversely affected.   On March 18, 2008, World Trade received a notice from Merrill advising World Trade that it has accelerated to July 16, 2008 the obligation of World Trade to repurchase 15,000 Class A Preferred Shares of Agilent Technologies (Cayco) Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, at a repurchase price of $1.5 billion. On June 27, 2008 and August 7, 2008, Agilent, World Trade and Merrill entered into amendments to certain of the World Trade financing agreements, pursuant to which, among other things, the Repurchase Date was extended from July 16, 2008 to November 17, 2008. Under the Company’s Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated May 11, 2007, as amended (the “Credit Agreement”) by and among the Company, the lenders who are a party to the agreement, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administration agent, if the World Trade repurchase obligation is not satisfied by at least three business days prior to the date the World Trade repurchase obligation is due, an “event of default” will occur under the Credit Agreement. Also, in the event that we enter into an alternative financing arrangement to satisfy the World Trade repurchase obligation, we may be required to agree to terms in the new financing that could cause an “event of default” under the Credit Agreement. If a default were to occur, our lenders could require us to immediately repay any outstanding debt and refuse to lend us additional amounts until the event of default were cured.   We have substantial cash requirements in the United States while a majority of our cash is generated outside of the United States. The failure to maintain a level of cash sufficient to address our cash requirements in the United States could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.   Although cash generated in the United States covers normal operating requirements, a substantial amount of additional cash is required for special purposes such as repurchases of our stock, acquisitions of third parties, and the refinancing of our $1.5 billion repurchase obligation related to our World Trade financing arrangement. Our business operating results, financial condition, and strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted if we were unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through (1) the efficient and timely repatriations of overseas cash or (2) other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost.   If we suffer a loss to our factories, facilities or distribution system due to catastrophe, our operations could be seriously harmed.   Our factories, facilities and distribution system are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. In particular, several of our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by   36      Table of Contents   earthquake due to their locations. Our production facilities, headquarters and Agilent Technologies Laboratories in California, and our production facilities in Washington and Japan, are all located in areas with above-average seismic activity. If any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. In addition, since we have consolidated our manufacturing facilities, we are more likely to experience an interruption to our operations in the event of a catastrophe in any one location. Although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism.   ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS