Item 1A. Risk Factors  An investment in KeyCorp and subsidiaries (“Key”) common shares is subject to risks inherent to its business, its industry and ownership of Key’s equity securities. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below relating to recent developments and the risk factors included in Key’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties that management has identified below are material. Although Key has significant risk management policies, procedures and verification processes in place, additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of, or focused on, or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.  IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS ACTUALLY OCCUR, KEY’S BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, AND/OR ACCESS TO LIQUIDITY AND/OR CREDIT COULD BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECTED (“MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON KEY”). IF THIS WERE TO HAPPEN, THE VALUE OF KEY’S SECURITIES — COMMON SHARES, NONCUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES A (“SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK”), FIXED-RATE CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES B (“SERIES B PREFERRED STOCK”) AND KEY’S TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES — COULD DECLINE, PERHAPS SIGNIFICANTLY, AND YOU COULD LOSE ALL OR PART OF YOUR INVESTMENT.  Risks Associated with Recent Developments  The results of the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (“SCAP”) assessment, a stress test, recently conducted by KeyCorp’s regulators pursuant to the U.S. Treasury’s CAP requires us to raise additional capital that will likely be highly dilutive to Key’s common shares.  In Key’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, we reported that under the United States Department of Treasury’s (the “U.S. Treasury”) Capital Assessment Program (“CAP”) Key was required to participate in SCAP to determine whether it would be required to raise additional capital.  As announced on May 7, 2009, under the SCAP assessment, KeyCorp is required to increase the amount of its Tier 1 common equity by $1.8 billion within six months, or accept contingent common equity under the CAP, in the form of mandatorily convertible preferred shares issued to the U.S. Treasury. KeyCorp will submit  96    Table of Contents  a capital plan to the Federal Reserve and has agreed to raise the required capital. KeyCorp will have until November 9, 2009 to either: (1) raise this additional capital through public or private capital transactions, including issuances and/or sales of common shares, exchanges of its Series A Preferred Stock and/or trust preferred securities issued by certain of its affiliates for Key’s common shares, asset dispositions, and/or other transactions, or (2) if Key is unable to consummate such transactions or to the extent they prove insufficient to raise the required amount of capital, convert a portion of its Series B Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) to mandatorily convertible preferred shares under the CAP and issue warrants to acquire additional common shares. Any additional capital, whether raised through public or private transactions or through the conversion of Key’s Series B Preferred Stock and the issuance of warrants to the U.S. Treasury, will likely be highly dilutive to common shareholders and may reduce the market price of Key’s common shares.  Key may not be able to raise private (i.e., nongovernmental) capital in the amount required or at all.  There can be no assurance that private capital will be available to Key on acceptable terms or at all, or that sufficient holders of our Series A Preferred Stock or trust preferred securities will be willing to exchange such securities for its common shares to achieve the required Tier 1 common equity capital level. If Key is unable to raise all or part of the amount of capital needed to raise through private capital transactions, including issuances and sales of common shares, exchanges of Series A Preferred Stock and/or trust preferred securities issued by certain of its affiliates for Key’s common shares, and/or other transactions, Key will be required to obtain capital from the U.S. Treasury by converting our Series B Preferred Stock issued under the CPP to mandatorily convertible preferred shares under the CAP. To view the standard CAP term sheet, including a summary of the terms of the securities that the U.S. Treasury receives in connection with any CAP issuance, see www.financialstability.gov.  Converting Key Series B Preferred Stock to mandatorily convertible preferred shares under the CAP is likely to impose additional restrictions on operations and could adversely affect liquidity.  The issuance of mandatorily preferred securities under the CAP is likely to impose additional conditions and limitations related to executive compensation and corporate governance upon us as well as new public reporting obligations. Many of Key’s competitors will not be subject to these restrictions and therefore may gain a competitive advantage.  Furthermore, the CAP mandatorily convertible preferred shares would accrue cumulative dividends at a rate of 9% per annum until their mandatory conversion to common after seven years or prior redemption. The annual interest payments on $1.8 billion of CAP capital are $162 million. This would represent an increase in dividend payments over the current CPP rate of 5% per annum (for the first five years) of $72 million, which could adversely impact liquidity, limit Key’s ability to return capital to shareholders and have a Material Adverse Effect on Key.  Converting Key’s Series B Preferred Stock to mandatorily convertible preferred shares under the CAP would result in the U.S. government acquiring a significant interest in KeyCorp, which may have an adverse effect on operations and the market price of Key’s common shares. Likewise, the potential issuance of a significant amount of common shares or equity convertible into Key’s common shares to a private investor or group of private investors may have the same effect.  Converting a large amount of Key’s Series B Preferred Stock issued under the CPP to mandatorily convertible preferred shares issued under the CAP could result in the U.S. Treasury becoming a significant shareholder of KeyCorp. Even if the U.S. Treasury does not control a majority of voting power, it may be able to exert significant influence on matters submitted to shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and certain transactions. The U.S. Treasury may also transfer all, or a portion of, its shares to another person or entity and, in the event of such a transfer, that person or entity could become a significant shareholder of KeyCorp. In addition, any issuance of a large amount of common equity or equity convertible into common to a private investor or group of investors may pose similar risks.  97    Table of Contents  Having a significant shareholder may make some future transactions more difficult or perhaps impossible to complete without the support of such shareholder. The interests of the significant shareholder, may not coincide with Key’s interests or the interests of other shareholders. There can be no assurance that any significant shareholder will exercise its influence in Key’s best interests as opposed to its best interests as a significant shareholder. A significant shareholder may make it difficult to approve certain transactions even if they are supported by the other shareholders, which may have an adverse effect on the market price of Key’s common shares.  The credit ratings of KeyCorp and KeyBank are important in order to maintain our liquidity.  Although Key’s long-term debt is currently rated investment-grade by the major rating agencies, the ratings of our long-term debt have been downgraded by certain of the major rating agencies and have been put on negative watch by another. These rating agencies regularly evaluate Key and its securities, and their ratings of Key’s long-term debt and other securities are based on a number of factors, including financial strength, its ability to generate earnings, and other factors some of which are not entirely within its control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry and the economy generally. In light of the difficulties in the financial services industry, the financial markets, and the economy there can be no assurance that Key will maintain its current ratings.  If securities of KeyCorp and/or KeyBank suffer additional ratings downgrades, such downgrades could adversely affect its access to liquidity and could significantly increase its cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to Key, thereby curtailing Key’s business operations and reducing its ability to generate income. Further downgrades of the credit ratings of KeyCorp’s and/or KeyBank’s securities, particularly if they are below investment-grade, could have a Material Adverse Effect on Key.  Key may not pay or be permitted to pay dividends on common shares.  Key common shareholders are only entitled to receive dividends as the Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although Key has historically declared cash dividends on its common shares, it is not required to do so and the Board of Directors has recently announced its intention to decrease the quarterly dividend payment on its common shares to $.01 per share. In the future, Key may further reduce or eliminate the dividend on its common shares. In addition, if Key determines to defer interest on any of its outstanding trust preferred securities or preferred stock, by the terms of those securities, Key will not be permitted pay dividends on common shares until Key resumes payments on such securities. This could adversely affect the market price of its common shares. Also, the terms of Key’s Series B Preferred Stock issued under the CPP limits its ability to increase its dividend or to repurchase common shares for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding.  Issuing a significant amount of convertible preferred equity to the U.S. Treasury or issuing a significant amount of common equity to a private investor may result in a change in control of KeyCorp under regulatory standards and contractual terms.  KeyCorp’s obtaining a significant amount of additional capital from the U.S. Treasury or any individual private investor could result in a change of control for Key under applicable regulatory standards and contractual terms. Such change of control may trigger notice, approval and/or other regulatory requirements in many states and jurisdictions in which Key operates. Key is also a party to various contracts and other agreements that may require it to obtain consents from its respective contract counterparties in the event of a change in control. The failure to obtain any required regulatory consents or approvals or contractual consents due to a change in control may have a material adverse effect on Key’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  98    Table of Contents  Potential misinterpretation of the results of the Stress Test may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and to compete for new business opportunities.  Key cannot predict its customers’ potential misinterpretation of, and adverse reaction to, the results of the Stress Test. Any potential misinterpretations and adverse reactions could limit its ability to attract and retain customers and to compete for new business opportunities. The inability to attract and retain customers or to effectively compete for new business may have a material and adverse effect on Key’s financial condition and results of operations.     Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds