ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS  In addition to the risk factors set forth below and the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our 2007 Annual Report filed on Form 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results.   New competitors are entering the drug-eluting stent market, which has impacted our market share and may negatively affect our revenues.  Until recently, our TAXUS® paclitaxel-eluting coronary stent system was one of only two drug-eluting stent products available in the U.S. market. Additional competitors are entering the U.S. drug-eluting stent market, including the introduction of the Endeavor® Zotarolimus-Eluting Coronary Stent by Medtronic, Inc. on February 1, 2008 and the anticipated launch of Abbott Laboratories’ XIENCE™ V drug-eluting stent system in the middle of 2008, which will put increased pressure on our U.S. drug-eluting stent system sales and negatively impact our market share. We expect that our share of the U.S. drug-eluting stent market, as well as unit prices, will continue to be impacted as additional competitors enter the market.  Our industry is experiencing greater scrutiny by governmental authorities, which has led to certain costs and business diversions as we respond to inquiries and may led to greater governmental regulation in the future.  The medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. These authorities have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. Recently, we have received inquiries from Congress and other government agencies regarding the conduct of clinical trials, conflicts of interests and financial arrangements with health care providers and consultants, and product promotional practices. We are cooperating with the requests, which cooperation involves document production costs, human resources costs and diversion of management and employee focus. We anticipate that the government will continue to scrutinize our industry closely and we may be subject to more rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the future.    ITEM 6.  EXHIBITS