ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  In addition to the information set forth below and other information contained in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our 2010 Annual Report filed on Form 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results.  We may record future goodwill impairment charges related to one or more of our business units, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations.  We test our April 1 goodwill balances for impairment during the second quarter of each year, or more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist. We assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level and, in evaluating the potential for impairment of goodwill, we make assumptions regarding estimated revenue projections, growth rates, cash flows and discount rates. Based on market information that became available to us toward the end of the first quarter of 2011, we concluded that there was a reduction in the estimated size of the U.S. Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM) market, which led to lower projected U.S. CRM results compared to prior forecasts and created an indication of potential impairment of the goodwill balance attributable to our U.S. CRM business unit. Therefore, we performed an interim impairment test in accordance with U.S. GAAP and our accounting policies and recorded a non-deductible goodwill impairment charge of $697 million, on both a pre-tax and after-tax basis, associated with this business unit during the first quarter of 2011. The amount of the goodwill impairment charge recorded in the first quarter of 2011 is an estimate, subject to finalization. We would recognize any necessary adjustment to this estimate in the second quarter of 2011, as we finalize the second step of the goodwill impairment test. We continue to identify four reporting units with a material amount of goodwill that are at higher risk of potential failure of the first step of the impairment test in future reporting periods. These reporting units include our U.S. CRM reporting unit, our U.S. Cardiovascular reporting unit, our U.S. Neuromodulation reporting unit, and our Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) region, which together hold approximately $8 billion of allocated goodwill. On a quarterly basis, we monitor the key drivers of fair value for these reporting units to detect events or other changes that would warrant an interim impairment test. For each of these reporting units, relatively small declines in the future performance and cash flows of the reporting unit relative to our expectations or small changes in other key assumptions may result in the recognition of future goodwill impairment charges, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.  Changes in tax laws, unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies, or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity.  We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to on-going tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision and have established contingency reserves for material, known tax exposures, including potential tax audit adjustments related to transfer pricing methodology disputes. We have received Notices of Deficiency from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for Guidant Corporation’s 2001-2003 tax years proposing adjustments to Guidant’s transfer pricing. We have petitioned the Tax Court contesting these adjustments. In April 2011, we received a Revenue Agent’s Report from the IRS for Guidant’s 2004-2006 tax years and we also expect to receive a Revenue Agent’s Report for Boston Scientific Corporation’s 2006-2007 tax years proposing additional transfer pricing adjustments based on substantially similar positions to those subject to our Tax Court petitions. There can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these disputes or other tax audits or that issues raised by tax authorities will be resolved at a financial cost that does not exceed our related reserves, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. corporate tax reform, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our future results of operations.  The natural disasters in Japan’s northeast coastal region, which caused damage and instability to the transportation, energy and distribution infrastructure in the affected regions of the country, has had and may continue to have an impact on our business in Japan which, coupled with continued or increased power outages and imposed power usage reductions, particularly in the summer months, and any additional seismic events or compromise of the nuclear power plants could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  In March 2011, a massive earthquake struck Japan’s northeast coastal region followed by a tsunami, aftershocks and nuclear fallout. We maintain a Japanese headquarters, distribution center, and more than 10 regional offices across the country. While none of our owned properties sustained any damage and we have been able to operate with minimal disruption, the recent events in Japan have caused damage and instability to the transportation, energy and distribution infrastructure in the affected regions of the country including at certain customer locations, which has had and may continue to have an impact our operations in Japan. Continued or increased power outages and imposed power usage reductions, particularly in the summer months, may result in, among other things, disruption in transportation services impacting employee, physician and patient access to our facilities and customer locations, reduction in scheduled procedures impacting procedural volume and demand for our products, reduction in working hours impacting productivity, compromised quality systems particularly with respect to products requiring temperature controlled environments, could have a material adverse effect on our operations in Japan. These factors couples with any additional seismic events and compromise to the stability of the nuclear power plants could further damage the transportation, energy and distribution infrastructure, cause damage to our facilities and customer locations, as well as raise air quality and other health concerns in the affected regions of the country and beyond, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  76    Table of Contents     ITEM 6. EXHIBITS