ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the information set forth below and other information contained elsewhere in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our 2010 Annual Report filed on Form 10-K, and in "Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our Quarterly Report filed on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2011, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results.We may not realize the expected benefits from our restructuring and Plant Network Optimization initiatives; our long-term expense reduction programs may result in an increase in short-term expense; and our efforts may lead to additional unintended consequences. In July 2011, we announced a 2011 Restructuring plan designed to strengthen operational effectiveness and efficiencies, increase competitiveness and support new investments, thereby increasing shareholder value. Key activities under the plan include standardizing and automating certain processes and activities; relocating select administrative and functional activities; rationalizing organizational reporting structures; leveraging preferred vendors; and taking other actions aimed at increasing overall productivity. Further, in February 2010, we announced a 2010 Restructuring plan designed to strengthen and position us for long-term success. Key activities under the plan, the majority of which are complete, included the integration of our Cardiovascular and CRM businesses, as well as the restructuring of certain other businesses and corporate functions; the centralization of our research and development organization; the realignment of our international structure; and the reprioritization and diversification of our product portfolio. In connection with this plan and our strategy to reduce risk, increase operational leverage, realign our business portfolio and accelerate profitable revenue growth, we recently closed the sale of our Neurovascular business and may explore opportunities to divest additional select businesses or assets in the future. Additionally, in January 2009, we announced our Plant Network Optimization program, aimed at simplifying our plant network, reducing our manufacturing costs and improving gross margins. Cost reduction initiatives under these collective plans include various cost and efficiency improvement measures, which may include head count reductions; the relocation of certain resources as well as administrative and functional activities; the closure of certain facilities; the transfer of certain production lines; the sale of certain non-strategic assets and other efforts to streamline our business, among other actions. These measures could yield unintended consequences, such as distraction of our management and employees, business disruption, attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce and reduced employee productivity. We may be unable to attract or retain key personnel. Attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce or a material decrease in employee morale or productivity could negatively affect our business, sales, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, head count reductions may subject us to the risk of litigation, which could result in substantial cost. Moreover, our expense reduction programs result in charges and expenses that impact our operating results. We cannot guarantee that these measures, or other expense reduction measures we take in the future, will result in the expected cost savings.If we are unable to attract, retain and focus key personnel, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to execute our Strategic Initiatives, including our POWER strategy, priority growth and cost improvement initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations.  We constantly monitor the dynamics of the economy, the healthcare industry and the markets in which we compete; and we continue to assess opportunities to improve operational effectiveness and better alignment of expenses with revenues, while preserving our ability to make needed investments in our priority growth initiatives, research and development projects, capital and our people that we believe are essential to our long-term success. In 2010, we announced our POWER strategy, priority growth initiatives and a series of management changes and restructuring initiatives designed to strengthen and position us for long-term success and, in 2011, building on those strategies and initiatives, we announced a $150 million investment in China as well as an additional restructuring initiative aimed at increasing productivity. If we are unable to attract key personnel in a timely manner, including a successor to our current CEO, key sales and other personnel who have critical industry experience and relationships in emerging markets such as Brazil, China and India, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to execute our strategic, priority growth and restructuring initiatives. In our industry, there is substantial competition for key personnel in the regions in which we operate and we may face increased competition for such employees, particularly in emerging markets as the trend toward globalization continues. In addition, if we are unable to retain and focus our existing key personnel to execute our strategic, priority growth and restructuring initiatives, it may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations.73Table of ContentsITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATIONEffective August 3, 2011, we extended the term of our Amended and Restated Credit and Security Agreement dated as of November 7, 2007 by and among Boston Scientific Funding Corporation; Boston Scientific Corporation; Old Line Funding, LLC; Victory Receivables Corporation; The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd., New York Branch; Royal Bank of Canada; Liberty Street Funding; and The Bank of Nova Scotia, through August 1, 2012. A form of this Amendment No. 5 is filed with this Quarterly Report as Exhibit 10.3.ITEM 6. EXHIBITS