Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the specific risk factors discussed below and in connection with forward-looking statements throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which could cause actual results to vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. These additional factors include, among other things, future political, economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation and governmental investigations; financial market conditions; and future business decisions made by us and our competitors, all of which are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of which are beyond our control. We caution each reader of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to consider carefully these factors. The following are some of the important risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations in any forward-looking statements. For further discussion of these and other risk factors, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Businesses •Our ability to increase net sales, expand the market and capture market share;•The volatility of the coronary stent market and our ability to increase our drug-eluting stent systems net sales, including with respect to our SYNERGY™, Promus PREMIER™ and PROMUS® Element™ stent systems, and capture market share;•The ongoing impact on our business, of physician alignment to hospitals, governmental investigations and audits of hospitals, and other market and economic conditions on the overall number of procedures performed;•Competitive offerings and related declines in average selling prices for our products, particularly our drug-eluting coronary stent systems and our CRM products;•The performance of, and physician and patient confidence in, our products and technologies, or those of our competitors;•The impact and outcome of ongoing and future clinical trials, and market studies undertaken by us, our competitors or other third parties, or perceived product performance of our or our competitors' products; •Variations in clinical results, reliability or product performance of our and our competitors' products; •Our ability to acquire or develop, launch and supply new or next-generation products and technologies worldwide and across our businesses in line with our commercialization strategies in a timely and successful manner, including our S-ICD® system and the acquisition and integration of Cosman Medical, Inc., the interventional radiology portfolio of CeloNova Biosciences, the American Medical Systems male urology portfolio and Xlumena, Inc.,•The effect of consolidation and competition in the markets in which we do business, or plan to do business;•Disruption in the manufacture or supply of certain components, materials or products, or the failure to timely secure alternative manufacturing or additional or replacement components, materials or products; 54Table of Contents•Our ability to retain and attract key personnel;•The impact of enhanced requirements to obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. and around the world, including the associated timing and cost of product approval;  •The impact of increased pressure on the availability and rate of third-party reimbursement for our products and procedures in the U.S. and around the world, including with respect to the timing and costs of creating and expanding markets for new products and technologies; and•Risk associated with counterparty default on our derivative financial instruments. Regulatory Compliance and Litigation•The impact of healthcare policy changes and legislative or regulatory efforts in the U.S. and around the world to modify product approval or reimbursement processes, including a trend toward demonstrating clinical outcomes, comparative effectiveness and cost efficiency, as well as the impact of other healthcare reform legislation;•Risks associated with our regulatory compliance and quality systems and activities in the U.S. and around the world, including meeting regulatory standards applicable to manufacturing and quality processes;•Our ability to minimize or avoid future field actions or FDA warning letters relating to our products and processes and the ongoing inherent risk of potential physician advisories related to medical devices;•The impact of increased scrutiny of and heightened global regulatory enforcement facing the medical device industry arising from political and regulatory changes, economic pressures or otherwise, including under U.S. Anti-Kickback Statute, U.S. False Claims Act and similar laws in other jurisdictions; U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and/or similar laws in other jurisdictions, and U.S. and foreign export control, trade embargo and customs laws;•Costs and risks associated with litigation;•The effect of our litigation and risk management practices, including self-insurance, and compliance activities on our loss contingencies, legal provision and cash flows; •The impact of, diversion of management attention as a result of, and costs to cooperate with, litigate and/or resolve, governmental investigations and our class action, product liability, contract and other legal proceedings; and•Risks associated with a failure to protect our intellectual property rights and the outcome of patent litigation.Innovation and Certain Growth Initiatives•The timing, size and nature of our strategic growth initiatives and market opportunities, including with respect to our internal research and development platforms and externally available research and development platforms and technologies, and the ultimate cost and success of those initiatives and opportunities;•Our ability to complete planned clinical trials successfully, obtain regulatory approvals and launch new and next generation products in a timely manner consistent with cost estimates, including the successful completion of in-process projects from in-process research and development;•Our ability to identify and prioritize our internal research and development project portfolio and our external investment portfolio on profitable revenue growth opportunities as well as to keep them in line with the estimated timing and costs of such projects and expected revenue levels for the resulting products and technologies;•Our ability to successfully develop, manufacture and market new products and technologies in a timely manner and the ability of our competitors and other third parties to develop products or technologies that render our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete;  55Table of Contents•The impact of our failure to succeed at or our decision to discontinue, write-down or reduce the funding of any of our research and development projects, including in-process projects from in-process research and development, in our growth adjacencies or otherwise;•Dependence on acquisitions, alliances or investments to introduce new products or technologies and to enter new or adjacent growth markets, and our ability to fund them or to fund contingent payments with respect to those acquisitions, alliances and investments; and•The failure to successfully integrate and realize the expected benefits from the strategic acquisitions, alliances and investments we have consummated or may consummate in the future.International Markets•Our dependency on international net sales to achieve growth, including in emerging markets;•The impact of changes in our international structure and leadership;•Risks associated with international operations and investments, including the timing and collectibility of customer payments, political and economic conditions, protection of our intellectual property, compliance with established and developing U.S. and foreign legal and regulatory requirements, including FCPA and similar laws in other jurisdictions and U.S. and foreign export control, trade embargo and customs laws, as well as changes in reimbursement practices and policies;•Our ability to maintain or expand our worldwide market positions in the various markets in which we compete or seek to compete, including through investments in product diversification and emerging markets such as Brazil, Russia, India and China;•Our ability to execute and realize anticipated benefits from our investments in emerging markets; and•The potential effect of foreign currency fluctuations and interest rate fluctuations on our net sales, expenses and resulting margins.Liquidity•Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to fund operations, capital expenditures, global expansion initiatives, any litigation settlements and judgments, share repurchases and strategic investments and acquisitions as well as maintaining our investment grade ratings and managing our debt levels and covenant compliance;•Our ability to access the public and private capital markets when desired and to issue debt or equity securities on terms reasonably acceptable to us;•The unfavorable resolution of open tax matters, exposure to additional tax liabilities and the impact of changes in U.S. and international tax laws;•The impact of examinations and assessments by domestic and international taxing authorities on our tax provision, financial condition or results of operations;•The impact of goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges, including on our results of operations; and•Our ability to collect outstanding and future receivables and/or sell receivables under our factoring programs.Cost Reduction and Optimization Initiatives•Risks associated with significant changes made or expected to be made to our organizational and operational structure, pursuant to our 2016 Restructuring plan and the completion of our 2014 Restructuring Plan, as well as any further restructuring or optimization plans we may undertake in the future, and our ability to recognize benefits and cost reductions from such programs; and 56Table of Contents•Business disruption and employee distraction as we execute our global compliance program, restructuring and optimization plans and divestitures of assets or businesses and implement our other strategic and cost reduction initiatives.Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plans by Executive OfficersPeriodically, certain of our executive officers adopt written stock trading plans in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act and our own Stock Trading Policy (a Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plan). A Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plan is a written document that pre-establishes the amount, prices and dates (or formulas for determining the amounts, prices and dates) of future purchases or sales of our stock, including shares issued upon exercise of stock options or vesting of deferred stock units. These plans are entered into at a time when the person is not in possession of material non-public information about Boston Scientific Corporation.  57Table of ContentsITEM 3.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We develop, manufacture and sell medical devices globally and our earnings and cash flows are exposed to market risk from changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. We address these risks through a risk management program that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. We operate the program pursuant to documented corporate risk management policies. We do not enter derivative transactions for speculative purposes. Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments substantially offset losses and gains on underlying hedged exposures. Furthermore, we manage our exposure to counterparty risk on derivative instruments by entering into contracts with a diversified group of major financial institutions and by actively monitoring outstanding positions.Our currency risk consists primarily of foreign currency denominated firm commitments, forecasted foreign currency denominated intercompany and third-party transactions and net investments in certain subsidiaries. We use both nonderivative (primarily European manufacturing operations) and derivative instruments to manage our earnings and cash flow exposure to changes in currency exchange rates. We had currency derivative instruments outstanding in the contract amount of $4.865 billion as of June 30, 2016 and $3.547 billion as of December 31, 2015. We recorded $144 million of other assets and $199 million of other liabilities to recognize the fair value of these derivative instruments as of June 30, 2016, as compared to $237 million of other assets and $23 million of other liabilities as of December 31, 2015. A ten percent appreciation in the U.S. dollar’s value relative to the hedged currencies would increase the derivative instruments’ fair value by $303 million as of June 30, 2016 and $155 million as of December 31, 2015. A ten percent depreciation in the U.S. dollar’s value relative to the hedged currencies would decrease the derivative instruments’ fair value by $326 million as of June 30, 2016 and by $189 million as of December 31, 2015. Any increase or decrease in the fair value of our currency exchange rate sensitive derivative instruments would be substantially offset by a corresponding decrease or increase in the fair value of the hedged underlying asset, liability or forecasted transaction, resulting in minimal impact on our consolidated statements of operations.Our interest rate risk relates primarily to U.S. dollar borrowings partially offset by U.S. dollar cash investments. We have historically used interest rate derivative instruments to manage our earnings and cash flow exposure to changes in interest rates. We had no interest rate derivative instruments outstanding as of June 30, 2016. As of June 30, 2016, $4.673 billion of our outstanding debt obligations were at fixed interest rates, representing approximately 86 percent of our total debt. Refer to Note D – Fair Value Measurements to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contained in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information regarding our derivative financial instruments. 58Table of ContentsITEM 4.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURESEvaluation of Disclosure Controls and ProceduresOur management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (CEO), and our Chief Financial Officer (CFO), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2016 pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that material information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and that such material information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our CEO and CFO, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on their evaluation, our CEO and CFO concluded that, as of June 30, 2016, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.Changes in Internal Control Over Financial ReportingDuring the six month period ended June 30, 2016, there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 59Table of ContentsPART IIOTHER INFORMATIONITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSSee Note H – Income Taxes and Note I – Commitments and Contingencies to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contained in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference.ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the information set forth below and other information contained elsewhere in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our most recent Annual Report filed on Form 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results.We are subject to a number of market, business, financial, legal and regulatory risks and uncertainties with respect to our international operations that could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.International net sales accounted for approximately 43 percent of our global net sales in 2015, with sales from emerging markets accounting for approximately 10 percent. An important part of our growth strategy is to continue pursuing growth opportunities in net sales and market share outside of the U.S. by expanding global presence, including in emerging markets. Our international operations are subject to a number of market, business and financial risks and uncertainties, including those related to political and economic instability; foreign currency exchange and interest rate fluctuations; competitive product offerings; local changes in health care financing and payment systems and health care delivery systems; local product preferences and requirements, including preferences for local manufacturers; workforce instability; less intellectual property protection in certain countries than exists in the United States; and, in certain foreign countries, longer accounts receivable cycles. Such risks and uncertainties may adversely impact our ability to implement our growth strategy in these markets and, as a result, our sales growth, market share and operating profits from our international operations may be adversely affected.Our international operations are subject to established and developing legal and regulatory requirements for medical devices in each country in which our products are marketed and sold. Most foreign countries have medical device regulations. Further, most countries outside of the U.S. require product approvals be renewed or recertified on a regular basis in order to continue to be marketed and sold there. In addition, several countries that previously did not have regulatory requirements for medical devices have established such requirements in recent years and other countries have expanded, or plan to expand, on existing regulations, including requiring local clinical data in addition to global clinical data. These factors have caused or may cause us to experience more uncertainty, risk, expense and delay in commercializing products in certain foreign jurisdictions, which could affect our ability to obtain approvals for our products in those jurisdictions and adversely impact our net sales, market share and operating profits from our international operations.Further, international markets are affected by economic pressure to contain healthcare costs, which can lead to lower reimbursement rates for either our products directly or procedures in which are our products are used. Governments and payers may also institute changes in health care delivery systems that may reduce funding for services or encourage greater scrutiny of health care costs. In addition, certain international markets may also be affected by foreign government efforts to reference reimbursement rates in other countries. All of these types of changes may ultimately reduce selling prices of our products or reduce the number of procedures in which our products are used, which may adversely impact our net sales, market share and operating profits from our international operations.In addition, our international operations are subject to other established and developing U.S. and foreign legal and regulatory requirements, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and/or similar laws in other countries; and U.S. and foreign import and export controls and licensing requirements, trade protection and embargo measures and customs laws. Global businesses, including those in the medical device industry, are facing increasing scrutiny of, and heightened enforcement efforts with respect to, their international operations. Any alleged or actual failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements may subject us to government scrutiny, civil and/or criminal proceedings, sanctions and other liabilities, which may have a material adverse effect on our international operations, financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity.Following a referendum in June 2016 in which voters in the United Kingdom (UK) approved an exit from the EU, the UK government is expected to initiate a process to withdraw from the EU (often referred to as “Brexit”) and begin negotiating the terms of the UK’s future relationship with the EU. A withdrawal could, among other outcomes, result in the deterioration of  60Table of Contentseconomic conditions, volatility in currency exchange rates, and increased regulatory complexities. These outcomes may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any significant changes in the political and economic, financial, competitive, legal and regulatory or reimbursement conditions where we conduct, or plan to expand, our international operations may have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDSNone.       61Table of ContentsITEM 6. EXHIBITS