Item 1A. Risk Factors in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and the specific risk factors discussed herein and in connection with forward-looking statements throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which could cause actual results to vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties, in some cases, have affected and in the future could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this Quarterly Report. As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that may cause such differences include, among other things: future economic, political, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions, new product introductions and the market acceptance of those products, markets for our products, expected pricing environment, expected procedural volumes, the closing and integration of acquisitions, clinical trial results, demographic trends, intellectual property rights, litigation, financial market conditions, the execution and effect of our restructuring program, the execution and effect of our business strategy, including our cost-savings and growth initiatives and future business decisions made by us and our competitors. New risks and uncertainties may arise from time to time and are difficult to predict. All of these factors are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of them are beyond our control. For a further list and description of these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, which we may update in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors in subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that we will file hereafter, and Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report.The following are some of the important risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations in any forward-looking statements. For further discussion of these and other risk factors, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our Businesses •Our ability to increase net sales, expand the market, capture market share and adapt to market volatility,•The ongoing impact on our business of physician alignment to hospitals, governmental investigations and audits of hospitals and other market and economic conditions on the overall number of procedures performed,•Competitive offerings and related declines in average selling prices for our products,•The performance of, and physician and patient confidence in, our products and technologies or those of our competitors,•The impact and outcome of ongoing and future clinical trials and market studies undertaken by us, our competitors or other third parties or perceived product performance of our or our competitors' products, •Variations in clinical results, reliability or product performance of our and our competitors' products,  44Table of Contents•Our ability to acquire or develop, launch and supply new or next-generation products and technologies worldwide and in line with our commercialization strategies in a timely and successful manner and with respect to our recent acquisitions,•The effect of consolidation and competition in the markets in which we do business or plan to do business,•Disruption in the manufacture or supply of certain components, materials or products or the failure to secure in a timely manner alternative manufacturing or additional or replacement components, materials or products,•Our ability to retain and attract key personnel,•The impact of enhanced requirements to obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. and around the world, including the associated timing and cost of product approval, and •The impact of increased pressure on the availability and rate of third-party reimbursement for our products and procedures in the U.S. and around the world, including with respect to the timing and costs of creating and expanding markets for new products and technologies.Regulatory Compliance, Litigation and Data Protection•The impact of healthcare policy changes and legislative or regulatory efforts in the U.S., the EU and around the world to modify product approval or reimbursement processes, including a trend toward demonstrating clinical outcomes, comparative effectiveness and cost efficiency, as well as the impact of other healthcare reform legislation,•Risks associated with our regulatory compliance and quality systems and activities in the U.S., the EU and around the world, including meeting regulatory standards applicable to manufacturing and quality processes,•Our ability to minimize or avoid future field actions or FDA warning letters relating to our products and processes and the ongoing inherent risk of potential physician advisories related to medical devices,•The impact of increased scrutiny of and heightened global regulatory enforcement facing the medical device industry arising from political and regulatory changes, economic pressures or otherwise, including under U.S. Anti-Kickback Statute, U.S. False Claims Act and similar laws in other jurisdictions, U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar laws in other jurisdictions, and U.S. and foreign export control, trade embargo and customs laws,•Costs and risks associated with litigation,•The effect of our litigation and risk management practices, including self-insurance and compliance activities on our loss contingencies, legal provision and cash flows, •The impact of, diversion of management attention as a result of and costs to cooperate with, litigate and/or resolve governmental investigations and our class action, product liability, contract and other legal proceedings,•The possibility of failure to protect our intellectual property rights and the outcome of patent litigation, and•Our ability to properly operate our information systems that support our business operations and protect our data integrity and products from a cyber-attack or other breach that has a material adverse effect on our business, reputation or results of operations.Innovation and Certain Growth Initiatives•The timing, size and nature of our strategic growth initiatives and market opportunities, including with respect to our internal research and development platforms and externally available research and development platforms and technologies and the ultimate cost and success of those initiatives and opportunities,•Our ability to complete planned clinical trials successfully, obtain regulatory approvals and launch new and next generation products in a timely manner consistent with cost estimates, including the successful completion of projects from in-process research and development, 45Table of Contents•Our ability to identify and prioritize our internal research and development project portfolio and our external investment portfolio on profitable revenue growth opportunities as well as to keep them in line with the estimated timing and costs of such projects and expected revenue levels for the resulting products and technologies,•Our ability to successfully develop, manufacture and market new products and technologies in a timely manner and the ability of our competitors and other third parties to develop products or technologies that render our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete, •Our ability to execute appropriate decisions to discontinue, write-down or reduce the funding of any of our research and development projects, including projects from in-process research and development, in our growth adjacencies or otherwise,•Our dependence on acquisitions, alliances or investments to introduce new products or technologies and to enter new or adjacent growth markets and our ability to fund them or to fund contingent payments with respect to those acquisitions, alliances and investments, and•The potential failure to successfully integrate and realize the expected benefits from the strategic acquisitions, alliances and investments we have consummated or may consummate in the future.International Markets•Our dependency on international net sales to achieve growth, including in emerging markets,•The impact of changes in our international structure and leadership,•The timing and collectability of customer payments, •The political and economic conditions (including the impact of the United Kingdom's exit from the EU, often referred to as "Brexit"), •Protection of our intellectual property, •Our ability to comply with established and developing U.S. and foreign legal and regulatory requirements, including FCPA and similar laws in other jurisdictions,•Our ability to comply with U.S. and foreign export control, trade embargo and customs laws,•The impact of changes in reimbursement practices and policies in both the U.S. and abroad,•Our ability to maintain or expand our worldwide market positions in the various markets in which we compete or seek to compete, including through investments in product diversification and emerging markets such as Brazil, Russia, India and China,•Our ability to execute and realize anticipated benefits from our investments in emerging markets, and•The potential effect of foreign currency fluctuations and interest rate fluctuations on our net sales, expenses and resulting margins.Liquidity•Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to fund operations, capital expenditures, global expansion initiatives, any litigation settlements and judgments, share repurchases and strategic investments and acquisitions as well as maintaining our investment grade ratings and managing our debt levels and covenant compliance,•Our ability to access the public and private capital markets when desired and to issue debt or equity securities on terms reasonably acceptable to us,•The unfavorable resolution of open tax matters, exposure to additional tax liabilities and the impact of changes in U.S. and international tax laws, 46Table of Contents•The impact of examinations and assessments by domestic and international taxing authorities on our tax provision, financial condition or results of operations,•The possibility of counterparty default on our derivative financial instruments,•The impact of potential intangible asset impairment charges, including on our results of operations, and•Our ability to collect outstanding and future receivables and/or sell receivables under our factoring programs.Cost Reduction and Optimization Initiatives•Risks associated with significant changes made or expected to be made to our organizational and operational structure, pursuant to our restructuring plans as well as any further restructuring or optimization plans we may undertake in the future and our ability to recognize benefits and cost reductions from such programs and•Business disruption and employee distraction as we execute our global compliance program, restructuring and optimization plans and divestitures of assets or businesses and implement our other strategic and cost reduction initiatives. 47Table of ContentsITEM 3.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKWe develop, manufacture and sell medical devices globally and our earnings and cash flows are exposed to market risk from changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. We address these risks through a risk management program that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. We operate the program pursuant to documented corporate risk management policies. We do not enter derivative transactions for speculative purposes. Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments substantially offset losses and gains on underlying hedged exposures. Furthermore, we manage our exposure to counterparty risk on derivative instruments by entering into contracts with a diversified group of major financial institutions and by actively monitoring outstanding positions.Our currency risk consists primarily of foreign currency denominated firm commitments, forecasted foreign currency denominated intercompany and third-party transactions and net investments in certain subsidiaries. We use both nonderivative (primarily European manufacturing operations) and derivative instruments to manage our earnings and cash flow exposure to changes in currency exchange rates. We had currency derivative instruments outstanding in the contract amount of $13.052 billion as of March 31, 2019 and $11.326 billion as of December 31, 2018. A ten percent appreciation in the U.S. dollar’s value relative to the hedged currencies would increase the derivative instruments’ fair value by $33 million as of March 31, 2019 as compared to $181 million as of December 31, 2018. A ten percent depreciation in the U.S. dollar’s value relative to the hedged currencies would decrease the derivative instruments’ fair value by $40 million as of March 31, 2019 as compared to $222 million as of December 31, 2018. Any increase or decrease in the fair value of our currency exchange rate sensitive derivative instruments would be substantially offset by a corresponding decrease or increase in the fair value of the hedged underlying asset, liability or forecasted transaction, resulting in minimal impact on our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations.Our interest rate risk relates primarily to U.S. dollar borrowings partially offset by U.S. dollar cash investments. We have historically used interest rate derivative instruments to manage our earnings and cash flow exposure to changes in interest rates. We had no interest rate derivative instruments outstanding as of March 31, 2019 and $1.000 billion outstanding in the contract amount as of December 31, 2018. As of March 31, 2019, $7.650 billion in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding debt obligations were at fixed interest rates, representing approximately 82 percent of our total debt. As of March 31, 2019, our outstanding debt obligations at fixed interest rates were comprised of senior notes.Certain of our non-designated forward currency contracts were entered into for the purpose of managing our exposure to currency exchange rate risk related to the purchase price of the proposed BTG Acquisition. As of March 31, 2019, we have entered into £3.311 billion in aggregate notional amount of forward and deal-contingent forward currency contracts and have hedged the full purchase price. As of December 31, 2018, we had entered into £2.000 billion in aggregate notional amount of these contracts. In the first quarter of 2019, we recognized immaterial gains due to changes in fair value of the contracts in Other, net, and we will continue to recognize changes in fair value in earnings until contract settlement.Refer to Note D – Hedging Activities and Fair Value Measurements to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contained in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information regarding our derivative financial instruments. 48Table of ContentsITEM 4.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURESEvaluation of Disclosure Controls and ProceduresOur management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and our Chief Financial Officer (CFO), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2019 pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that material information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and that such material information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our CEO and CFO, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on their evaluation, our CEO and CFO concluded that, as of March 31, 2019, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.Changes in Internal Control Over Financial ReportingWe implemented certain controls related to the adoption of FASB ASC Topic 842, Leases, effective January 1, 2019. These controls were designed and implemented to ensure the completeness and accuracy over financial reporting. With the exception of the controls implemented for FASB ASC Topic 842, there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting in the three month period ended March 31, 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 49Table of ContentsPART IIOTHER INFORMATIONITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSSee Note H – Income Taxes and Note I – Commitments and Contingencies to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contained in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference.ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the information set forth below and other information contained elsewhere in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in our most recent Annual Report filed on Form 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results.We are subject to a number of market, business, financial, legal and regulatory risks and uncertainties with respect to our international operations that could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. International net sales accounted for 44 percent of our global net sales in the first quarter of 2019, which includes sales from Emerging Markets accounting for approximately 12 percent. An important part of our strategy is to continue pursuing growth opportunities in net sales and market share outside of the U.S. by expanding global presence, including in Emerging Markets. Our international operations are subject to a number of market, business and financial risks and uncertainties, including those related to geopolitical and economic instability, foreign currency exchange and interest rate fluctuations, competitive product offerings, local changes in health care financing and payment systems and health care delivery systems, local product preferences and requirements, including preferences for local manufacturers; workforce instability, less intellectual property protection in certain countries than exists in the U.S. and, in certain foreign countries, longer accounts receivable cycles. Such risks and uncertainties may adversely impact our ability to implement our growth strategy in these markets and, as a result, our sales growth, market share and operating profits from our international operations may be adversely affected. Our international operations are subject to established and developing legal and regulatory requirements for medical devices in each country in which our products are marketed and sold. Most foreign countries have medical device regulations. Further, most countries outside of the U.S. require product approvals be renewed or recertified on a regular basis in order to continue to be marketed and sold there. In addition, several countries that previously did not have regulatory requirements for medical devices have established such requirements in recent years and other countries have expanded, or plan to expand, existing regulations, including requiring local clinical data in addition to global clinical data. These factors have caused or may cause us to experience more uncertainty, risk, expense and delay in commercializing products in certain foreign jurisdictions, which could affect our ability to obtain approvals for our products in those jurisdictions and adversely impact our net sales, market share and operating profits from our international operations. Further, international markets are affected by economic pressure to contain healthcare costs, which can lead to more rigorous evidence requirements and lower reimbursement rates for either our products directly or procedures in which our products are used. Governments and payers may also institute changes in health care delivery systems that may reduce funding for services or encourage greater scrutiny of health care costs. In addition, certain international markets may also be affected by foreign government efforts to reference reimbursement rates in other countries. All of these types of changes may ultimately reduce selling prices of our products and/or reduce the number of procedures in which our products are used, which may adversely impact our net sales, market share and operating profits from our international operations.In addition, our international operations are subject to other established and developing U.S. and foreign legal and regulatory requirements, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and/or similar laws in other countries and U.S. and foreign import and export controls and licensing requirements, trade protection and embargo measures and customs laws. Global businesses, including those in the medical device industry, are facing increasing scrutiny of, and heightened enforcement efforts with respect to, their international operations. Any alleged or actual failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements may subject us to government scrutiny, civil and/or criminal proceedings, sanctions and other liabilities, which may have a material adverse effect on our international operations, financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity. In a referendum on June 23, 2016, voters approved the exit of the United Kingdom (UK) from the European Union (EU). As it stands, the UK will depart the EU on October 31, 2019, based on recent extensions issued in April 2019, but the terms of its withdrawal and the nature of its future relationship with the EU are still being decided. Future exit of the UK from the EU will have numerous consequences in all areas of our business, including, economic, regulatory and operational, and the actual impact depends on the ultimate deal reached and is very difficult to assess at this time. Changes in industry regulations could have an  50Table of Contentseffect on existing CE certificates being renewed and new certificates being issued which would impact the ability to trade; however, it is impossible to assess the full impact at this stage.In December of 2017, EU leaders announced an agreement to begin the next phase of negotiations with talks on a transition period and discussion on the future UK-EU relationship, including trade and security, are underway and hoped to be finalized by the October 31, 2019 extended deadline. At this stage, the materiality to us of the Brexit risk factor remains unknown and unquantifiable. However, we have implemented a Brexit Response Team and have put in place mitigation procedures to reduce any significant operational risks that have been identified to date.Any significant changes in the political and economic, financial, competitive, legal and regulatory or reimbursement conditions where we conduct, or plan to expand, our international operations may have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Disruptions in the supply of the materials and components used in manufacturing our products or the sterilization of our products by third-party vendors could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We purchase the majority of the materials and components used in manufacturing our products from third-party vendors. Certain of these materials and components are purchased from single sources due to quality considerations, expertise, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. In certain cases, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement vendors for such materials or components in a timely or cost effective manner, largely as a result of FDA regulations that require validation of materials and components prior to their use in our products and the complex nature of our and many of our vendors' manufacturing processes. A reduction or interruption in the supply of materials and components used in manufacturing our products, an inability to timely develop and validate alternative sources if required or a significant increase in the price of such materials or components could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, many of our products require sterilization prior to sale and we utilize a mix of internal resources and contract sterilizers to perform this service. To the extent we or our contract sterilizers are unable to sterilize our products, whether due to capacity, availability of materials for sterilization, regulatory or other constraints, including federal and state regulations on the use of ethylene oxide, we may be unable to transition to other contract sterilizers, sterilizer locations or sterilization methods in a timely or cost effective manner or at all, which could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition.As previously disclosed, one of our contract sterilizers, Sterigenics U.S. LLC (Sterigenics), uses ethylene oxide to provide sterilization services for certain men’s health products within our Urology and Pelvic Health business. In October 2018, the DuPage County State's Attorney and Illinois Attorney General filed a lawsuit against Sterigenics over the emissions in connection with the use of ethylene oxide during sterilization at Sterigenics’ Willowbrook, Illinois plant. On February 15, 2019, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) took action to suspend operations at the Willowbrook facility. Effective March 28, 2019, the FDA granted Boston Scientific approval to sterilize men’s health products affected by the Sterigenics closure at an existing sterilization facility in our supply chain network. We are currently working with regulatory agencies for approvals outside the U.S.ITEM 6. EXHIBITS