Risk Factors There are a number of factors, including those specified below, that may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial results or stock price. Additional risks that the Company currently does not know about or currently views as immaterial may also impair the Company’s business or adversely impact its financial results or stock price.    Industry Risk Factors   The Company’s business and financial results are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions. The Company’s business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the United States economy and the local economies in which the Company operates. For example, an economic downturn, an increase in unemployment, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could result in a deterioration of credit quality, a change in the allowance for credit losses, or reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services. Changes in the financial performance and condition of the Company’s borrowers could negatively affect repayment of those borrowers’ loans. In addition, changes in securities market conditions and monetary fluctuations could adversely affect the availability and terms of funding necessary to meet the Company’s liquidity needs.    Changes in the domestic interest rate environment could reduce the Company’s net interest income. The operations of financial institutions such as the Company are dependent to a large degree on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from loans and investments and interest expense on deposits and borrowings. An institution’s net interest income is significantly affected by market rates of interest, which in turn are affected by prevailing economic conditions, by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and by the policies of various regulatory agencies. Like all financial institutions, the Company’s balance sheet is affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Volatility in interest rates can also result in the flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct investments. Direct investments, such as U.S. Government and corporate securities and other investment vehicles (including mutual funds) generally pay higher rates of return than financial institutions, because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements.    Changes in the laws, regulations and policies governing financial services companies could alter the Company’s business environment and adversely affect operations. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its fiscal and monetary policies determine in a large part the Company’s cost of funds for lending and investing and the return that can be earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the Company’s net interest margin. Federal Reserve Board policies can also materially affect the value of financial instruments that the Company holds, such as debt securities and mortgage servicing rights.    The Company and its bank subsidiaries are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes in statutes, regulations or policies could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products that the Company offers and/or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. The Company cannot predict whether any of this potential legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it or any regulations would have on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.   The financial services industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could intensify and adversely affect the Company’s financial results. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. The Company competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions and investment companies. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. Many of the Company’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and some have lower cost structures. Also, the potential need to adapt to industry changes in information technology systems, on which the Company and financial services industry are highly dependent, could present operational issues and require capital spending.    Changes in consumer use of banks and changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. Technology and other changes now allow many consumers to complete financial transactions without using banks. For example,     U.S. BANCORP  111     Table of Contents  consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without going through a bank. This “disintermediation” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. In addition, changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect the Company’s operations, and the Company may be unable to timely develop competitive new products and services in response to these changes that are accepted by new and existing customers.   Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions. Geopolitical conditions may also affect the Company’s earnings. Acts or threats or terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to terrorism, or similar activity, could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions.    Company Risk Factors   The Company’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The Company’s allowance for loan losses is based on its historical loss experience as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with its loan portfolio, including the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect its financial results.    The Company may suffer losses in its loan portfolio despite its underwriting practices. The Company seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices often include: analysis of a borrower’s credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers; and verification of liquid assets. Although the Company believes that its underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans it makes, the Company may incur losses on loans that meet these criteria.    Maintaining or increasing the Company’s market share may depend on lowering prices and market acceptance of new products and services. The Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt its products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. Lower prices can reduce the Company’s net interest margin and revenues from its fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services, could require the Company to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt the Company’s existing products and services. Also, these and other capital investments in the Company’s businesses may not produce expected growth in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. The Company might not be successful in introducing new products and services, achieving market acceptance of its products and services, or developing and maintaining loyal customers.    Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, the Company faces significant operational risks. The Company operates in many different businesses in diverse markets and relies on the ability of its employees and systems to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from the Company’s operations, including, but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of the Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements and business continuation and disaster recovery. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, the Company could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation.    The change in residual value of leased assets may have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial results. The Company engages in leasing activities and is subject to the risk that the residual value of the property under lease will be less than the Company’s recorded asset value. Adverse changes in the residual value of leased assets can have a negative impact on the Company’s financial results. The risk of changes in the realized value of the leased assets compared to recorded residual values depends on many factors outside of the Company’s control, including supply and demand for the assets, collecting insurance claims, condition of the assets at the end of the lease term, and other economic factors.    Negative publicity could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely impact its business and financial results. Reputation risk, or the risk to the Company’s earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent in the Company’s business. Negative publicity can result from the Company’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance     112 U.S. BANCORP    Table of Contents  and acquisitions, and actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely affect the Company’s ability to keep and attract customers and can expose the Company to litigation and regulatory action. Because most of the Company’s businesses operate under the “U.S. Bank” brand, actual or alleged conduct by one business can result in negative publicity about other businesses the Company operates. Although the Company takes steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with customers and other constituencies, the Company, as a large diversified financial services company with a high industry profile, is inherently exposed to this risk.   The Company’s reported financial results depend on management’s selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates. The Company’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report the Company’s financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances, yet might result in the Company’s reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative.    Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting the Company’s financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include: the allowance for credit losses; the valuation of mortgage servicing rights; the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets; and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, the Company may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on its goodwill and other intangible asset balances; or significantly increase its accrued taxes liability.   For more information, refer to “Critical Accounting Policies” in this Annual Report and Form 10-K.   Changes in accounting standards could materially impact the Company’s financial statements. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the Company’s restating prior period financial statements.    Acquisitions may not produce revenue enhancements or cost savings at levels or within timeframes originally anticipated and may result in unforeseen integration difficulties. The Company regularly explores opportunities to acquire financial services businesses or assets and may also consider opportunities to acquire other banks or financial institutions. The Company cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions.    Difficulty in integrating an acquired business or company may cause the Company not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), loss of key employees, disruption of the Company’s business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected.   The Company must generally receive federal regulatory approval before it can acquire a bank or bank holding company. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on the competition, financial condition, and future prospects. The regulators also review current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management and its record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served (including the acquiring institution’s record of compliance under the Community Reinvestment Act) and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. In addition, the Company cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. The Company may be required to sell banks or branches as a condition to receiving regulatory approval.   If new laws were enacted that restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to share information about customers, the Company’s financial results could be negatively affected. The Company’s business model depends on sharing information among the family of     U.S. BANCORP  113     Table of Contents  companies owned by U.S. Bancorp to better satisfy the Company’s customer needs. Laws that restrict the ability of the companies owned by U.S. Bancorp to share information about customers could negatively affect the Company’s revenue and profit.   The Company’s business could suffer if the Company fails to attract and retain skilled people. The Company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities the Company engages in can be intense. The Company may not be able to hire the best people or to keep them.    The Company relies on other companies to provide key components of the Company’s business infrastructure. Third party vendors provide key components of the Company’s business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and mutual fund distribution. While the Company has selected these third party vendors carefully, it does not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing the Company their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products and services to the Company’s customers and otherwise to conduct its business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.    Significant legal actions could subject the Company to substantial uninsured liabilities. The Company is from time to time subject to claims related to its operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by the Company’s regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. To protect itself from the cost of these claims, the Company maintains insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that it believes are appropriate for its operations. However, the Company’s insurance coverage may not cover all claims against the Company or continue to be available to the Company at a reasonable cost. As a result, the Company may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.    The Company is exposed to risk of environmental liability when it takes title to properties. In the course of the Company’s business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, the Company could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. The Company may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if the Company is the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, it may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If the Company becomes subject to significant environmental liabilities, its financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.   A natural disaster could harm the Company’s business. Natural disasters could harm the Company’s operations through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of the Company’s websites, which would prevent the Company from gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling its flow of business, as well as through the destruction of facilities and the Company’s operational, financial and management information systems.    The Company faces systems failure risks as well as security risks, including “hacking” and “identity theft.” The computer systems and network infrastructure the Company and others use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. These problems may arise in both our internally developed systems and the systems of our third-party service providers. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss or telecommunication failure. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition, our computer systems and network infrastructure present security risks, and could be susceptible to hacking or identity theft.    The Company relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for its liquidity needs. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its bank subsidiaries and non-bank subsidiaries. The Company receives substantially all of its cash from dividends paid by its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Company’s stock and interest and principal on its debt. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank subsidiaries and certain of our non-bank subsidiaries may pay to the Company. Also, the Company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors.    The Company has non-banking businesses that are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The Company is a diversified financial services company, and the Company’s business model is based on a mix of businesses that provide     114 U.S. BANCORP    Table of Contents  a broad range of products and services delivered through multiple distribution channels. In addition to banking, the Company provides payment services, investments, mortgages and corporate and personal trust services. Although the Company believes its diversity helps lessen the effect of downturns in any one segment of its industry, it also means the Company’s earnings could be subject to various specific risks and uncertainties related to these non-banking businesses.   The Company’s stock price can be volatile. The Company’s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, including: actual or anticipated variations in the Company’s quarterly operating results; recommendations by securities analysts; significant acquisitions or business combinations; strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or the Company’s competitors; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company; new technology used or services offered by the Company’s competitors; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; and changes in government regulations.    General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, including terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations, could also cause the Company’s stock price to decrease regardless of the Company’s operating results.   Properties U.S. Bancorp and its significant subsidiaries occupy headquarter offices under a long-term lease in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Company also leases eight freestanding operations centers in Cincinnati, Denver, Milwaukee, Minneapolis, Portland and St. Paul. The Company owns nine principal operations centers in Cincinnati, Coeur d’Alene, Fargo, Milwaukee, Owensboro, Portland, St. Louis and St. Paul. At December 31, 2006, the Company’s subsidiaries owned and operated a total of 1,466 facilities and leased an additional 1,439 facilities, all of which are well maintained. The Company believes its current facilities are adequate to meet its needs. Additional information with respect to premises and equipment is presented in Notes 8 and 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    Website Access to SEC Reports U.S. Bancorp’s internet website can be found at usbank.com. U.S. Bancorp makes available free of charge on its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as well as all other reports filed by U.S. Bancorp with the SEC, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.   Certifications U.S. Bancorp has filed as exhibits to this annual report on Form 10-K the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer certifications required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. U.S. Bancorp has also submitted the required annual Chief Executive Officer certification to the New York Stock Exchange.   Governance Documents The Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and Board of Directors committee charters are available free of charge on the Company’s web site at usbank.com, by clicking on “About U.S. Bancorp,” then “Corporate Governance.” Shareholders may request a free printed copy of any of these documents from the Company’s investor relations department by contacting them at investorrelations@usbank.com or calling (866) 775-9668.   CAPITAL COVENANTS