Item 1A. Risk Factors    The Company faces a variety of risks that may affect its operations or financial results, and many of those risks are driven by factors that the Company cannot control or predict. The following discussion addresses those risks that management believes are the most significant, although there may be other risks that could arise, or may prove to be more significant than expected, that may affect the Company’s operations or financial results.    For a discussion of the Company’s risk management, including technology and operating risk, credit risk, concentration risk, and legal and regulatory risk, see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Risk Management.”    Developments in the business, economic, and geopolitical environment could negatively impact the Company’s business.    The Company’s business can be adversely affected by the general environment – economic, corporate, securities market, regulatory, and geopolitical developments all play a role in client asset valuations, trading activity, interest rates and overall investor engagement, and are outside of the Company’s control. The recent deterioration in the housing and credit markets, decline of short-term interest rates, and significant securities market volatility could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.    A significant decrease in the Company’s liquidity could negatively affect the Company’s business and financial management as well as reduce client confidence in the Company.    Maintaining adequate liquidity is crucial to the business operations of the Company, including margin lending, mortgage lending, and transaction settlement, among other liquidity needs. Also, a reduction in CSC’s liquidity position could adversely affect CSC’s ability to repay debt, pay cash dividends and repurchase shares of its stock. If the Company’s broker-dealer or depository institution subsidiaries fail to meet regulatory capital guidelines, regulators could limit the subsidiaries’ operations or their ability to upstream funds to CSC. Any such limitations could have an adverse effect on CSC, which depends primarily on cash generated by its subsidiaries in order to fulfill its debt service obligations and otherwise meet its liquidity needs. In addition, a reduction in the Company’s liquidity position could reduce client confidence in the Company, which could result in the loss of client accounts. The Company attempts to manage liquidity risk by maintaining sufficient liquid financial resources to fund its balance sheet and meet its obligations. The Company meets its liquidity needs primarily through cash generated by operations, as well as cash provided by external financing. Fluctuations in client cash or deposit balances, as well as changes in market conditions, may affect the Company’s ability to meet its liquidity needs.    Specific risk factors which may adversely affect the Company’s liquidity position include:      •    a reduction in cash held in banking or brokerage client accounts which may affect the amount of the Company’s liquid assets;      •    a significant downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings which could increase its borrowing costs and limit its access to the capital markets; and      •    a dramatic increase in the Company’s client lending activities (including margin, mortgage, and personal lending) which may reduce the Company’s liquid resources and excess capital position.    Significant interest rate changes could affect the Company’s profitability and financial condition.    The Company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily from changes in the interest rates on its interest-earning assets (such as margin loans, customer mortgages, and securities) and its funding sources (such as customer deposits and Company borrowings). Changes in interest rates generally affect the interest earned on interest-earning assets differently than the interest the Company pays on its interest-bearing liabilities. Overall, the Company is positioned to benefit from a rising interest rate environment; the Company could be adversely affected by a decline in interest rates if the rates that the Company earns on interest-earning assets decline more than the rates that the Company pays on interest-bearing liabilities, or if prepayment rates increase on the mortgages and mortgage-backed securities that the Company holds. The Company may also be limited in the amount it can reduce interest rates on deposit accounts and still offer a competitive return. In the event prevailing short-term     - 7 -    Table of Contents THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION     interest rates declined to the point where yields available on money market mutual funds approached the level of management fees on those funds, the Company could find itself in the position of having to reduce its management fees so that it could continue to pay clients a competitive return on their assets.    The Company may suffer significant losses from its credit exposures.    The Company’s businesses are subject to the risk that a client or counterparty will fail to perform its contractual obligations, or that the value of collateral held to secure obligations will prove to be inadequate. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to manage this risk, the policies and procedures may not be fully effective. The Company’s exposure mainly results from margin lending activities, securities lending activities, mortgage lending activities, its role as a counterparty in financial contracts and investing activities, and indirectly from the investing activities of certain of the proprietary funds that the Company sponsors.    The Company has exposure to credit risk associated with its securities available for sale portfolio which includes U.S. agency and non-agency collateralized mortgage obligations and corporate debt securities among other investments. The Company’s loans to banking clients primarily consist of first-lien mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. Housing price declines, increases in delinquency and default rates, changes in the interest rate environment and other economic factors can result in write-downs on such loans and the loss of value of securities available for sale.    Heightened credit exposures to specific counterparties or instruments (concentration risk) can increase the Company’s risk of loss. Examples of the Company’s credit concentration risk include:      •    large investment positions in financial instruments collateralized by assets with similar economic characteristics or in securities of a single issuer or industry;      •    mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit to banking clients which are secured by properties in the same geographic region; and      •    margin and securities lending activities collateralized by securities of a single issuer or industry.    The Company may also be subject to concentration risk when lending to a particular counterparty, borrower or issuer.    The Company sponsors a number of proprietary money market funds. During 2007, several financial institutions provided credit or liquidity support for their sponsored money market funds. Although the Company has no obligation to do so, the Company could decide for competitive reasons to provide credit or liquidity support to its funds in the event of significant declines in valuation of fund holdings. Such support could cause the Company to take significant charges and could reduce the Company’s liquidity. If the Company chose not to provide credit or liquidity support in such a situation, the Company could suffer reputational damage and its business could be adversely affected.    The Company’s industry is characterized by aggressive price competition.    The Company continually monitors its pricing in relation to competitors and periodically adjusts commission rates, interest rates, and other fee structures to enhance its competitive position. Increased competition, including pricing pressure, could harm the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.    The industry in which the Company competes has undergone a period of consolidation.    The Company faces intense competition for the clients that it serves and the products and services it offers. There has been significant consolidation as financial institutions with which the Company competes have been acquired by or merged into or acquired other firms. This consolidation may continue. Competition is based on many factors, including the range of products and services offered, pricing, customer service, brand recognition, reputation, and perceived financial strength. Consolidations may enable other firms to offer a broader range of products and services than the Company does, or offer such products at more competitive prices.      - 8 -    Table of Contents THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION    The Company faces intense competition in hiring and retaining qualified employees, especially for employees who are key to the Company’s ability to build and enhance client relationships.    The market for quality professionals and other personnel in the Company’s business is highly competitive. Competition is particularly strong for financial consultants who build and sustain the Company’s client relationships. The Company’s ability to continue to compete effectively will depend upon its ability to attract new employees and retain existing employees while managing compensation costs.    Technology and operational failures could subject the Company to losses, litigation, and regulatory actions.    The Company faces technology and operating risk which is the potential for loss due to deficiencies in control processes or technology systems of the Company or its vendors that constrain the Company’s ability to gather, process, and communicate information and process client transactions efficiently and securely, without interruptions. This risk also includes the risk of human error, employee misconduct, external fraud, computer viruses, terrorist attacks, and natural disaster. The Company’s business and operations could be negatively impacted by any significant technology and operational failures. Moreover, instances of fraud or other misconduct, including improper use or disclosure of confidential client, employee, or company information, might also negatively impact the Company’s reputation and client confidence in the Company, in addition to any direct losses that might result from such instances. Despite the Company’s efforts to identify areas of risk, oversee operational areas involving risk, and implement policies and procedures designed to manage risk, there can be no assurance that the Company will not suffer unexpected losses, reputational damage or regulatory action due to technology or other operational failures, including those of its vendors.    The Company also faces risk related to its security guarantee which covers client losses from unauthorized account activity, such as those caused by external fraud involving the compromise of clients’ login and password information. Losses reimbursed under the guarantee could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations.    The Company relies on outsourced service providers to perform key functions.    The Company relies on service providers to perform certain key technology, processing, and support functions. These service providers also face technology and operating risk and any significant failures by them, including the improper use or disclosure of the Company’s confidential client, employee, or company information, could cause the Company to incur losses and could harm the Company’s reputation. The Company also faces the risk that a service provider could, without adequate notice, cease to provide services, which could disrupt the Company’s operations. Switching to an alternative service provider may also require a transition period and result in less efficient operations.    Potential strategic transactions could have a negative impact on the Company’s financial position.    The Company evaluates potential strategic transactions, including business combinations, acquisitions, and dispositions. Any such transaction could have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The process of evaluating, negotiating, and effecting any such strategic transaction may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, and might cause the loss of key clients, employees, and business partners. Moreover, integrating businesses and systems may result in unforeseen expenditures as well as numerous risks and uncertainties, including the need to integrate operational, financial, and management information systems and management controls, integrate relationships with clients and business partners, and manage facilities and employees in different geographic areas. In addition, an acquisition may cause the Company to assume liabilities or become subject to litigation. Further, the Company may not realize the anticipated benefits from an acquisition, and any future acquisition could be dilutive to the Company’s current stockholders’ percentage ownership or to earnings per share (EPS).    - 9 -    Table of Contents THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION    The Company’s acquisitions and dispositions are typically subject to closing conditions, including regulatory approvals and the absence of material adverse changes in the business, operations or financial condition of the entity being acquired or sold. To the extent the Company enters into an agreement to buy or sell an entity, there can be no guarantee that the transaction will close when expected, or at all. If a material transaction does not close, the Company’s stock price could decline.    Extensive regulation of the Company’s businesses limits the Company’s activities and may subject it to significant penalties.    As a participant in the securities, banking and financial services industries, the Company is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws by governmental agencies, supervisory authorities, and SROs. Such regulation continues to become more extensive and complex. The requirements imposed by the Company’s regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets, the safety and soundness of financial institutions, and the protection of clients. These regulations often serve to limit the Company’s activities by way of capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements, and restrictions on the businesses in which the Company may operate. Despite the Company’s efforts to comply with applicable regulations, there are a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable regulations may be unclear or where regulators revise their previous guidance. Any enforcement actions or other proceedings brought by the Company’s regulators against the Company or its affiliates, officers or employees could result in fines, penalties, cease and desist orders, enforcement actions, or suspension or expulsion, any of which could harm the Company’s reputation and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.    Legislation or changes in rules and regulations could negatively impact the Company’s business and financial results.    New legislation, rule changes, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing federal, state and SRO rules and regulations may directly affect the operation and profitability of the Company or its specific business lines. The profitability of the Company could also be affected by rules and regulations which impact the business and financial communities generally, including changes to the laws governing taxation, electronic commerce, client privacy and security of client data.    In the ordinary course of business, the Company is subject to litigation and may not always be successful in defending itself against such claims.    The Company is subject to claims and lawsuits in the ordinary course of its business, which can result in settlements, awards, and injunctions. It is inherently difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of these matters, particularly in cases in which claimants seek substantial or unspecified damages, and a substantial judgment, settlement, fine, or penalty could be material to the Company’s operating results or cash flows for a particular future period, depending on the Company’s results for that period.    From time to time, the Company is subject to litigation claims from third parties alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights (e.g., patents). Such litigation can require the expenditure of significant Company resources. If the Company was found to have infringed a third-party patent, or other intellectual property rights, it could incur substantial liability, and in some circumstances could be enjoined from using certain technology, or providing certain products or services.    The Company’s stock price has fluctuated historically, and may continue to fluctuate.    The Company’s stock price can be volatile. Among the factors that may affect the Company’s stock price are the following:      •    speculation in the investment community or the press about, or actual changes in, the Company’s competitive position, organizational structure, executive team, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost reduction initiatives, or strategic transactions;      •    the announcement of new products, services, acquisitions, or dispositions by the Company or its competitors;    - 10 -    Table of Contents THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION      •    increases or decreases in revenue or earnings, changes in earnings estimates by the investment community, and variations between estimated financial results and actual financial results.    Changes in the stock market generally or as it concerns the Company’s industry, as well as geopolitical, economic, and business factors unrelated to the Company, may also affect the Company’s stock price.       Item 1B. Unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Comments