Certain Risks The following risks and uncertainties, together with other information set forth in this Form 10-K, should be carefully considered by current and future investors in our securities. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, this could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and could negatively impact the value of our common stock. Low oil and gas prices could adversely affect our financial results and future rate of growth in proved reserves and production. Our revenues and results of operations are highly dependent on oil and gas prices. The prices we receive for our production are based on prevailing market conditions and are influenced by many factors that are beyond our control. Historically, oil and gas prices have fluctuated widely. For example, in 2006 we sold our gas at an average price of $6.50 per Mcf, which was 19 percent lower than our 2005 average sales price of $8.05 per Mcf. Conversely, our average 2006 oil price of $61.96 per barrel was 12 percent higher than the price we received in 2005 of $55.25 per barrel. In recent years, oil prices have responded to changes in supply and demand stemming from actions taken by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, worldwide economic conditions, growing transportation and power generation needs, and other events. Factors affecting gas prices have included domestic supplies; the level and price of natural gas imports into the U.S.; weather conditions; the economy and the price and level of alternative sources of energy such as nuclear power, hydroelectric power, coal, and other petroleum products. Our proved oil and gas reserves and production volumes will decrease in quantity unless we successfully replace the reserves we produce with new discoveries or acquisitions. For the foreseeable future, we expect to make substantial capital investments for the exploration and development of new oil and gas reserves to replace the reserves we produce and to increase our total proved reserves. Historically, we have paid for these types of capital expenditures with cash flow provided by our production operations. Because low oil and gas prices would negatively affect the amount of cash flow available to fund these capital investments, they could also affect our future rate of growth. Low prices may also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can economically produce and may cause us to curtail, delay or defer certain exploration and development projects. We may be required under accounting rules to write down the carrying value of our properties or impair goodwill when gas and oil prices are low. Moreover, our ability to borrow under our bank credit facility and to raise additional debt or equity capital to fund acquisitions would also be impacted. 11     Our use of hedging arrangements could result in financial losses or reduce our income. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in natural gas prices, we have entered into hedging arrangements for a portion of our natural gas production. These hedging arrangements expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when: · production is less than expected; · the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations; or · there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and actual prices received. Failure of our exploration and development program to find commercial quantities of new oil and gas reserves could negatively affect our financial results and future rate of growth. Most of our wells produce from reservoirs characterized by high levels of initial production and declines which stabilize within three to five years. In order to replace the reserves depleted by production and to maintain or grow our total proved reserves and overall production levels, we must locate and develop new oil and gas reserves or acquire producing properties from others. While we may from time to time seek to acquire proved reserves, our main business strategy is to grow through drilling. Without successful exploration and development, our reserves, production and revenues could decline rapidly, which would negatively impact our results of operations and reduce our ability to raise capital. Exploration and development involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be discovered. Exploration and development can also be unprofitable, not only from dry wells, but from productive wells that do not produce sufficient reserves to return a profit. We often are uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and producing wells. Our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of several factors, including unforeseen poor drilling conditions, title problems, unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures, accidents, adverse weather conditions, compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements, and the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs and related equipment. The high-rate production characteristics of our properties subject us to high reserve replacement needs and require significant capital expenditures to replace our reserves. Unless we conduct successful development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as they are produced. Producing natural gas and oil reservoirs are generally characterized by declining production rates that vary depending on reservoir characteristics and other factors. Because of the high-rate production profiles of our properties, replacing produced reserves is more difficult for us than for companies whose reserves have longer-life production profiles. This imposes greater reinvestment risk for our company as we may not be able to continue to economically replace our reserves. Our proved reserve estimates may be inaccurate and future net cash flows are uncertain. Estimates of proved oil and gas reserves and their associated future net cash flow necessarily depend on a number of variables and assumptions. Among others, changes in any of the following factors may cause estimates to vary considerably from actual results: · production rates, reservoir pressure, and other subsurface information; · future oil and gas prices; 12    · assumed effects of governmental regulation; · future operating costs; · future property, severance, excise and other taxes incidental to oil and gas operations; · capital expenditures; · workover and remedial costs; and · Federal and state income taxes. Our proved oil and gas reserve estimates are prepared by Cimarex engineers in accordance with guidelines established by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). DeGolyer and MacNaughton, independent petroleum engineers, reviewed our reserve estimates for properties that comprised at least 80 percent of the discounted future net cash flows before income taxes, using a 10 percent discount rate, as of December 31, 2006. The values referred to in this report should not be construed as the current market value of our proved reserves. In accordance with SEC guidelines, the estimated discounted net cash flow from proved reserves is based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, whereas actual future prices and costs may be materially different. We deliver oil and gas through pipelines that we do not own. The marketability of our production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of these pipelines. These facilities may not always be available to us in the future. The lack of availability of these facilities for an extended period of time could negatively affect revenues. Competition in our industry is intense and many of our competitors have greater financial and technological resources. We operate in the competitive area of oil and gas exploration and production. Many of our competitors are large, well-established companies that have larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than we do. These companies may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive oil and gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. We are subject to complex laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration, development, production and sale of oil and gas are subject to extensive Federal, state and local laws and regulations, including complex environmental laws. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental and other governmental regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties, environmental protection, and taxation. Our operations create the risk of environmental liabilities to the government or third parties for any unlawful discharge of oil, gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water. In the event of environmental violations, we may be charged with remedial costs. Pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Such liabilities and costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 13    Our limited ability to influence operations and associated costs on properties not operated by us could result in economic losses that are partially beyond our control. Other companies operate approximately 30 percent of our net production. Our success in properties operated by others depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including timing and amount of capital expenditures, the operator’s expertise and financial resources, approval of other participants in drilling wells, selection of technology and maintenance of safety and environmental standards. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects could prevent the realization of our targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. Our business involves many operating risks that may result in substantial losses for which insurance may be unavailable or inadequate. Our operations are subject to hazards and risks inherent in drilling for oil and gas, such as fires, natural disasters, explosions, formations with abnormal pressures, casing collapses, uncontrollable flows of underground gas, blowouts, surface cratering, pipeline ruptures or cement failures, and environmental hazards such as natural gas leaks, oil spills and discharges of toxic gases. Any of these risks can cause substantial losses resulting from injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and other environmental damages, regulatory investigations and penalties, suspension of our operations and repair and remediation costs. In addition, our liability for environmental hazards may include conditions created by the previous owners of properties that we purchase or lease. We maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. We do not believe that insurance coverage for all environmental damages that could occur is available at a reasonable cost. Losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could harm our financial condition and results of operation. We have outstanding Convertible Notes which are convertible into our common stock. We have outstanding $125 million of Convertible Notes (face value) that mature on December 15, 2023. The Convertible Notes will be convertible into a combination of cash and common stock of Cimarex upon the happening of certain events. In general, upon conversion of a Convertible Note, the holder would receive cash equal to the principal amount of the Convertible Note and Cimarex common stock for the Convertible Note’s conversion value in excess of such principal amount. The number of Cimarex common shares into which the Convertible Notes are convertible is dependent upon the conversion value in excess of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and our future common stock price. Any such conversion will be dilutive to our existing shareholders. Our acquisition activities may not be successful, which may hinder our replacement of reserves and adversely affect our results of operations. We evaluate opportunities and engage in bidding and negotiating for acquisitions, some of which are substantial. Under certain circumstances, we may pursue acquisitions of businesses that complement or expand our current business and acquisition and development of new exploration prospects that complement or expand our prospect inventory. We may not be successful in identifying or acquiring any material property interests, which could hinder us in replacing our reserves and adversely affect our financial results and rate of growth. Even if we do identify attractive opportunities, there is no assurance that we will be able to complete the acquisition of the business or prospect on commercially acceptable terms. If we do complete an acquisition, we must anticipate difficulties in integrating its operations,  14    systems, technology, management and other personnel with our own. These difficulties may disrupt our ongoing operations, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Competition for experienced, technical personnel may negatively impact our operations. Our exploratory and development drilling success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced professional personnel. The loss of any key executives or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations. As we continue to grow our asset base and the scope of our operations, our future profitability will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, particularly individuals with a strong background in geology, geophysics, engineering and operations. There are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. While Cimarex has taken actions designed to address compliance with the internal control, disclosure control and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC implementing these requirements, there are inherent limitations in its ability to control all circumstances. See Item 9A of this report for a complete discussion of controls and procedures. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, such as growth of the company or increased transaction volume, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. The Cimarex certificate of incorporation, by-laws and stockholders’ rights plan include provisions that could discourage an unsolicited corporate takeover and could prevent stockholders from realizing a premium on their investment. The certificate of incorporation and by-laws of Cimarex provide for a classified board of directors with staggered terms, restrict the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent and prevent stockholders from calling a meeting of the stockholders. In addition, Delaware General Corporation Law imposes restrictions on business combinations with interested parties. Cimarex also has adopted a stockholders’ rights plan. The stockholders’ rights plan, the certificate of incorporation and the by-laws may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Cimarex, even if the change in control might be beneficial to Cimarex stockholders. 15     ITEM 2