ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  The risk factor previously disclosed in PNC’s 2007 Form 10-K in response to Part I, Item 1A under the caption, “We grow our business in part by acquiring from time to time other financial services companies, and these acquisitions present us with a number of risks and uncertainties related both to the acquisition transactions themselves and to the integration of the acquired businesses into PNC after closing,” is hereby updated and replaced with the following:  “We grow our business in part by acquiring from time to time other financial services companies, and these acquisitions present us with a number of risks and uncertainties related both to the acquisition transactions themselves and to the integration of the acquired businesses into PNC after closing.  Acquisitions of other financial services companies in general present risks to PNC in addition to those presented by the nature of the business acquired. In particular, acquisitions may be substantially more expensive to complete (including as a result of costs incurred in connection with the integration of the acquired company) and the anticipated benefits (including anticipated cost savings and strategic gains) may be significantly harder or take longer to achieve than expected. In some cases, acquisitions involve our entry into new businesses or new geographic or other markets, and these situations also present risks resulting from our inexperience in these new areas. As a regulated financial institution, our pursuit of attractive acquisition opportunities could be negatively impacted due to regulatory delays or other regulatory issues. Regulatory and/or legal issues relating to the pre-acquisition operations of an acquired business may cause reputational harm to PNC following the acquisition and integration of the acquired business into ours and may result in additional future costs arising as a result of those issues.  Our recent acquisition of Sterling presents many of the risks and uncertainties related to acquisition transactions themselves and to the integration of the acquired businesses into PNC after closing described above. Sterling presents regulatory and litigation risk, as a result of financial irregularities at Sterling’s commercial finance subsidiary, that may impact our financial results.”  There are no material changes from any of the other risk factors previously disclosed in PNC’s 2007 Form 10-K in response to Part I, Item 1A.     ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS