ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  The following risk factor is added to the risk factors previously disclosed in PNC’s 2009 Form 10-K in response to Part I, Item 1A. In general, each of these risk factors, including the one added below, presents the risk of a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition, in addition to other possible consequences described therein. These risk factors are also discussed further in other parts of our 2009 Form 10-K and in this Report.  The regulatory environment for the financial services industry will be significantly impacted by the passage of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.  The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) mandates the most wide-ranging overhaul of financial industry regulation in decades. Dodd-Frank was signed into law on July 21, 2010, and is now in the implementation stage. The law provides a regulatory framework and requires that regulators, some of which are new regulatory bodies created by Dodd-Frank, draft, review and approve more than 200 implementing regulations and conduct numerous studies that are likely to lead to more regulations.  The newly created regulatory bodies are the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the Financial Stability Oversight Council. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has been given authority to regulate all consumer financial products sold by banks and non-bank companies. The 10-member inter-agency Financial Stability Oversight Council has been charged with identifying systemic risks and strengthening the regulation of financial holding companies and certain non-bank companies deemed to be “systemically important” and could, in extraordinary cases, break up financial firms deemed “too big to fail.”  There are a number of reform provisions that are likely to significantly impact the ways in which banks and bank holding companies, including PNC, do business. For example, Dodd-Frank prohibits banks from engaging in some types of proprietary trading, restricts the ability of banks to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds, and requires banks to move some derivatives business to separately capitalized subsidiaries of holding companies. The Federal Reserve will set debit card interchange fees. States will be allowed to impose consumer protection laws on national banks if the state   laws are stricter than federal laws, although the Comptroller of the Currency may preempt state laws if they prevent or significantly interfere with the business of banking. Other provisions of the legislation will affect oversight, holding company capital requirements, risk retention for securitizations, and residential mortgage products.  While much of how Dodd-Frank will operate depends on the specific regulatory changes adopted, it is clear that the reforms will have a significant effect on our entire industry. Although Dodd-Frank will affect a number of the areas in which we do business, it is not clear at this time what adjustments will be required and the extent to which we will be able to adjust our businesses. Although it is difficult to predict the magnitude and extent of these effects at this stage, we believe compliance with Dodd-Frank and its implementing regulations will negatively impact revenue and increase the cost of doing business, both in terms of transition expenses and on an ongoing basis and may limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities.  ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS