Risk Factors (Item 1A)  The following has been added to the Registrant’s list of risk factors affecting its business since the filing of its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007:  If Fifth Third’s plan to sell certain non-core businesses is not successful, or not as successful as it expects, it may not be able to generate the gains on sale and related increase in shareholders’ equity that it anticipates from the sale of those certain businesses. Moreover, if Fifth Third sells certain non-core businesses, the loss of income from these businesses that are sold could have an adverse effect on its earnings and future growth.  Fifth Third owns several non-strategic businesses that are not significantly synergistic with its core financial services businesses. Fifth Third has announced plans to supplement its common equity capital by an estimated additional $1 billion or more through the sale of certain of these businesses. Although it expects these transactions to be completed over the course of the next several quarters, there can be no assurance that it will be able to do so within that time frame. Moreover, there can be no assurance that Fifth Third will be successful in selling these businesses at all. If it cannot complete these contemplated transactions at all, or cannot do so within the expected time frame, it will have an adverse impact on Fifth Third’s ability to generate the common equity capital it anticipates. If Fifth Third is successful in completing the sale of certain non-core businesses, it will suffer the loss of income from the sold businesses, and such loss of income could have an adverse effect on its future earnings and growth.  There have been no material changes made during the second quarter of 2008 to any of the other risk factors as previously disclosed in the Registrant’s 2007 Form 10-K.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds (Item 2)  Refer to the “Capital Management” section within Management’s Discussion and Analysis in Part I, Item 3 for information regarding purchases of equity securities by the Bancorp during the second of 2008.  Defaults Upon Senior Securities (Item 3)  None.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders (Item 4)   None.  Other Information (Item 5)  None.    70    Table of Contents Exhibits (Item 6)           