Risk Factors (Item 1A)  The following is an addition to the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.  The regulatory environment for the financial services industry will be significantly impacted by the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act.  The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010 and although it became generally effective in July, many of its provisions have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and will require extensive rulemaking by regulatory authorities as well as require multiple studies to be conducted over the next one to two years. The Dodd-Frank Act, including future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, could result in a number of adverse impacts. The levels of capital and liquidity with which Fifth Third must operate may be subject to more stringent capital requirements (including an elimination of the Bancorp’s existing trust preferred securities as Tier 1 Capital). Fifth Third may be subjected to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance premiums to the FDIC. Revenue on interchange fees may decrease as a result of the level of fees the Federal Reserve deems “reasonable and proportional” when it establishes regulation standards on the amount of interchange fees that can be charged to merchants for electronic debit card transactions. Fifth Third may also be subject to additional regulations under the newly established Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection which was given broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations. These and other provisions of the Act may place large additional costs on Fifth Third, impede its growth opportunities and place it at a competitive disadvantage.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds (Item 2)  Refer to the “Capital Management” section within Management’s Discussion and Analysis in Part I, Item 3 for information regarding purchases and sales of equity securities by the Bancorp during the third quarter of 2010.  Defaults Upon Senior Securities (Item 3)  None.  (Removed and Reserved) (Item 4)  Other Information (Item 5)  None.    93    Table of Contents   Exhibits (Item 6)           