Risk Factors (Item 1A)  The following is a change to the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014.  As a regulated entity, the Bancorp is subject to certain capital requirements that may limit its operations and potential growth.  The Bancorp is a bank holding company and a financial holding company. As such, it is subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”), including risk-based and leverage capital requirements, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. The Bancorp must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by the Federal Reserve Board which can change depending upon general economic conditions and the Bancorp’s particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. Compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive use of capital and could adversely affect the Bancorp’s ability to expand or maintain present business levels.  In June 2012, Federal banking agencies proposed enhancements to the regulatory capital requirements for U.S. banking organizations, which implemented aspects of Basel III, such as re-defining the regulatory capital elements and minimum capital ratios, introducing regulatory capital buffers above those minimums, revising the agencies’ rules for calculating risk-weighted assets and introducing a new Tier I common equity ratio. In July 2013, the Federal banking agencies issued final rules for the enhanced regulatory capital requirements, which included modifications to the proposed rules. The final rules provide the option for certain banking organizations, including the Bancorp, to opt out of including accumulated other comprehensive income in Tier I capital and retain the treatment of residential mortgage exposures consistent with the current Basel I capital rules. The new capital rules are effective for the Bancorp on January 1, 2015, subject to phase-in periods for certain components and other provisions. The need to maintain more and higher quality capital as well as greater liquidity going forward could limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions. Moreover, although these new requirements are being phased in over time, U.S. Federal banking agencies have been taking into account expectations regarding the ability of banks to meet these new requirements, including under stressed conditions, in approving actions that represent uses of capital, such as dividend increases and share repurchases.  The Bancorp’s banking subsidiary must remain well-capitalized, well-managed and maintain at least a “Satisfactory” Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) rating for the Bancorp to retain its status as a financial holding company. Failure to meet these requirements could result in the Federal Reserve Board placing limitations or conditions on the Bancorp’s activities (and the commencement of new activities) and could ultimately result in the loss of financial holding company status. In 2014, the Federal Reserve Board conducted a regularly scheduled examination covering 2011 through 2013 to determine the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary’s compliance with the CRA. Although the Federal Reserve Board has not made a final determination, the Bancorp believes that its banking subsidiary’s rating in that CRA examination may result in a rating of “Needs to Improve”. If that would occur, such rating would last at least until the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary’s next CRA examination. The next CRA examination is expected to occur during 2016, although the precise timing of the completion of that examination and any results therefrom may not occur until later.  In addition, failure by the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary to meet applicable capital guidelines could subject the bank to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities. These include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a capital directive to increase capital, and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds (Item 2)  Refer to the “Capital Management” section within Management’s Discussion and Analysis in Part I, Item 2 for information regarding purchases and sales of equity securities by the Bancorp during the second quarter of 2015.  Defaults Upon Senior Securities (Item 3)  None.  Mine Safety Disclosures (Item 4)  Not applicable.  Other Information (Item 5)  None.    120    Table of Contents Exhibits (Item 6)        