Risk Factors (Item 1A)  The corresponding risk factors previously disclosed in the Bancorp’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, are amended and restated as follows:  Changes in interest rates could affect Fifth Third’s income and cash flows.  Fifth Third’s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond Fifth Third’s control, including general economic conditions in the U.S. or abroad and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in particular, the FRB). Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. The impact of these changes may be magnified if Fifth Third does not effectively manage the relative sensitivity of its assets and liabilities to changes in market interest rates. Fluctuations in these areas may adversely affect Fifth Third and its shareholders.  As a regulated entity, the Bancorp is subject to certain capital requirements that may limit its operations and potential growth.  The Bancorp is a bank holding company and a financial holding company. As such, it is subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the FRB, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. The Bancorp must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by the FRB which can change depending upon general economic conditions and the Bancorp’s particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. Compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive use of capital and could adversely affect the Bancorp’s ability to expand or maintain present business levels.  In July 2013, the Federal banking agencies issued final rules for the enhanced regulatory capital requirements for U.S. banking organizations, which implemented aspects of Basel III. The final rules provide the option for certain banking organizations, including the Bancorp, to opt out of including AOCI in regulatory capital and retain the treatment of residential mortgage exposures consistent with the current Basel I capital rules. The new capital rules became effective for the Bancorp on January 1, 2015, subject to phase-in periods for certain components and other provisions. The need to maintain more and higher quality capital as well as greater liquidity could limit Fifth Third’s business activities, including lending, and the ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions. Moreover, although these new requirements are being phased in over time, U.S. federal banking agencies have been taking into account expectations regarding the ability of banks to meet these new requirements, including under stressed conditions, in approving actions that represent uses of capital, such as dividend increases and share repurchases.  Failure by the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary to meet applicable capital guidelines could subject the Bank to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities. These include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a capital directive to increase capital, and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC.  Fifth Third is subject to various regulatory requirements that may limit its operations and potential growth.  Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions and their holding companies, the FRB, the FDIC, the CFPB and the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions by Fifth Third and its banking subsidiary, Fifth Third Bank. Fifth Third and its banking subsidiary are subject to such supervisory authority and, more generally, must, in certain instances, obtain prior regulatory approval before engaging in certain activities or corporate decisions. There can be no assurance that such approvals, if required, would be forthcoming or that such approvals would be granted in a timely manner. Failure to receive any such approval, if required, could limit or impair Fifth Third’s operations, restrict its growth and/or affect its dividend policy. Such actions and activities subject to prior approval include, but are not limited to, increasing dividends paid by Fifth Third or its banking subsidiary, entering into a merger or acquisition transaction, acquiring or establishing new branches, and entering into certain new businesses.  The Bancorp is a bank holding company and a financial holding company. Failure by the Bancorp or Fifth Third Bank to meet the applicable eligibility requirements for financial holding company status (including capital and management requirements and that Fifth Third Bank maintain at least a “Satisfactory” CRA rating) may result in restrictions on certain activities of the Bancorp, including the commencement of new activities and mergers with or acquisitions of other financial institutions, and could ultimately result in the loss of financial holding company status.  In the wake of the most recent global financial crisis, Fifth Third and other financial institutions more generally have been subjected to increased scrutiny from government authorities, including bank regulatory authorities, stemming from broader systemic regulatory concerns, including with respect to stress testing, capital levels, asset quality, provisioning, AML/BSA, consumer compliance and other prudential matters and efforts to ensure that financial institutions take steps to improve their risk management and prevent future crises.    118    Table of Contents  In this regard, government authorities, including the bank regulatory agencies, are also pursuing aggressive enforcement actions with respect to compliance and other legal matters involving financial activities, which heightens the risks associated with actual and perceived compliance failures and may also adversely affect Fifth Third’s ability to enter into certain transactions or engage in certain activities, or obtain necessary regulatory approvals in connection therewith.  In some cases, regulatory agencies may take supervisory actions that may not be publicly disclosed, which restrict or limit a financial institution. Finally, as part of Fifth Third’s regular examination process, Fifth Third’s and its banking subsidiary’s respective regulators may advise it and its banking subsidiary to operate under various restrictions as a prudential matter. Such supervisory actions or restrictions, if and in whatever manner imposed, could negatively affect Fifth Third’s ability to engage in new activities and certain transactions, as well as have a material adverse effect on Fifth Third’s business and results of operations and may not be publicly disclosed.  In July 2016, the FRB announced that Fifth Third Bank received a rating of “Needs to Improve” on its CRA examination for the period covering 2011-2013 following its periodic examination to determine Fifth Third Bank’s compliance with the CRA from 2011 through 2013. While Fifth Third Bank’s CRA rating is “Needs to Improve” the Bancorp and Fifth Third Bank face limitations and conditions on certain activities (including the commencement of new activities and merger with or acquisitions of other financial institutions) and the potential loss of financial holding company status. As a result of these limitations and conditions, Fifth Third may be unable or may fail to pursue, evaluate or complete transactions that might have been strategically or competitively significant. The Bank’s next CRA examination is expected to commence during the fourth quarter of 2016.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds (Item 2)  Refer to the “Capital Management” section within Management’s Discussion and Analysis in Part I, Item 2 for information regarding purchases and sales of equity securities by the Bancorp during the second quarter of 2016.  Defaults Upon Senior Securities (Item 3)  None.  Mine Safety Disclosures (Item 4)  Not applicable.  Other Information (Item 5)  None.   Exhibits (Item 6)           