Risk Factors (Item 1A)  The following is a change to the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.  The acquisition of MB Financial may dilute current shareholders’ ownership of Fifth Third and may cause Fifth Third to become more susceptible to adverse economic events.  Fifth Third will issue a substantial number of additional shares of stock in its merger with MB Financial, which will dilute current shareholders’ ownership interests. Fifth Third will also use substantial cash or other liquid assets or incur debt to fund the merger. In those events, Fifth Third could become more susceptible to economic downturns, market conditions and competitive pressures.  Fifth Third and MB Financial will incur transaction and integration costs in connection with the merger.  Each of Fifth Third and MB Financial has incurred and expects that it will incur significant, non-recurring costs in connection with consummating the merger. In addition, Fifth Third will incur integration costs following the completion of the merger as Fifth Third integrates the businesses of the two companies, including facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs. There can be no assurances that the expected benefits and efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will be realized to offset these transaction and integration costs over time. See the risk factor entitled “—Fifth Third May Fail to Realize the Anticipated Benefits of the Merger” below. Fifth Third and MB Financial may also incur additional costs to maintain employee morale and to retain key employees. Fifth Third and MB Financial will also incur significant legal, financial advisor, accounting, banking and consulting fees, fees relating to regulatory filings and notices, SEC filing fees, printing and mailing fees and other costs associated with the merger. Some of these costs are payable regardless of whether the merger is completed.  Fifth Third may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger.  Inherent uncertainties exist when assessing or integrating the operations of an acquired business or investment or relationship opportunity. Fifth Third may not be able to fully achieve its strategic objectives and planned operating efficiencies in its acquisition of MB Financial, Inc. Additionally, integration of MB Financial may require Fifth Third to devote substantial time and resources and may cause this acquisition to be unprofitable or cause Fifth Third to be unable to pursue other business opportunities.  Fifth Third and MB Financial have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. The success of the merger, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend on, among other things, Fifth Third’s ability to combine the businesses of Fifth Third and MB Financial in a manner that permits growth opportunities, including, among other things, enhanced revenues and revenue synergies, an expanded market reach and operating efficiencies, and does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of Fifth Third or MB Financial or result in decreased revenues due to any loss of customers. If Fifth Third is not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s business, financial condition, operating results and prospects.  Certain employees may not be employed by Fifth Third after the merger. In addition, employees that Fifth Third wishes to retain may elect to terminate their employment as a result of the merger, which could delay or disrupt the integration process. It is possible that the integration process could result in the disruption of Fifth Third’s or MB Financial’s ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the ability of Fifth Third or MB Financial to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger.  After completing the acquisition, Fifth Third may find certain items were not accounted for properly in accordance with financial accounting and reporting standards. Fifth Third may also not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition due to lower financial results pertaining to the acquired entity or assets. For example, Fifth Third could experience higher charge-offs than originally anticipated related to the acquired loan portfolio. Additionally, acquired companies or businesses may increase Fifth Third’s risk of regulatory action or restrictions related to the operations of the acquired business.  Regulatory approvals may not be received, may take longer than expected or may impose conditions that are not presently anticipated or cannot be met.  Before the transactions contemplated in the merger agreement can be completed, various approvals must be obtained from the bank regulatory and other governmental authorities. In deciding whether to grant these approvals, the relevant governmental entities will consider a variety of factors, including the regulatory standing of each of the parties and the effect of the merger on competition. An adverse development in either party’s regulatory standing or other factors could result in an inability to obtain one or more of the required regulatory approvals or delay receipt of required approvals.    117     Table of Contents   The Federal Reserve Board has stated that if supervisory issues arise during processing of an application for approval of a merger transaction, a banking organization will be expected to withdraw its application pending resolution of such supervisory concerns. Accordingly, if there is an adverse development in either party’s regulatory standing, Fifth Third may be required to withdraw its application for approval of the proposed merger and, if possible, resubmit it after the applicable supervisory concerns have been resolved.  The terms of the approvals that are granted may impose conditions, limitations, obligations or costs, or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company’s business or require changes to the terms of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose any such conditions, limitations, obligations or restrictions and that such conditions, limitations, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of delaying the completion of any of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger or otherwise reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger if the merger were consummated successfully within the expected timeframe. Nor can there be any assurance that any such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the merger. Additionally, the completion of the merger is conditioned on the absence of certain orders, injunctions or decrees by any court or regulatory agency of competent jurisdiction that would prohibit or make illegal the completion of any of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement.  Fifth Third and MB Financial believe that the proposed transactions should not raise significant regulatory concerns and that Fifth Third will be able to obtain all requisite regulatory approvals in a timely manner. However, the processing time for obtaining regulatory approvals for mergers of banking institutions, particularly for larger institutions, has increased since the financial crisis. In addition, despite the parties’ commitments to use their reasonable best efforts to comply with conditions imposed by regulatory entities, under the terms of the merger agreement, Fifth Third and MB Financial will not be required to take actions that would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on Fifth Third and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, after giving effect to the merger (measured on a scale relative to MB Financial and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole).  The merger agreement may be terminated in accordance with its terms and the merger may not be completed.  The merger agreement is subject to a number of conditions which must be fulfilled in order to complete the merger. Those conditions include: approval of the merger and charter amendment by the MB Financial common stockholders, receipt of requisite regulatory approvals, absence of orders prohibiting completion of any of the proposed transactions, effectiveness of the registration statement of which this proxy statement/prospectus is a part, approval of the Fifth Third common shares to be issued in connection with the merger for listing on the NASDAQ, the accuracy of the representations and warranties by both parties (subject to the materiality standards set forth in the merger agreement) and the performance by both parties of their covenants and agreements, and the receipt by both parties of legal opinions from their respective tax counsels. These conditions to the closing of the merger may not be fulfilled in a timely manner or at all, and, accordingly, the merger may not be completed. In addition, the parties can mutually decide to terminate the merger agreement at any time, before or after stockholder approval, or Fifth Third or MB Financial may elect to terminate the merger agreement in certain other circumstances.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds (Item 2)  Refer to the “Capital Management” section within Management’s Discussion and Analysis in Part I, Item 2 for information regarding purchases and sales of equity securities by the Bancorp during the second quarter of 2018.  Defaults Upon Senior Securities (Item 3)  None.  Mine Safety Disclosures (Item 4)  Not applicable.  Other Information (Item 5)  None.   Exhibits (Item 6)           