Risk Factors (Item 1A)  The following is a change to the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018:  Societal responses to climate change could adversely affect Fifth Third’s business and performance, including indirectly through impacts on Fifth Third’s customers.  Concerns over the long-term impacts of climate change have led and will continue to lead to governmental efforts around the world to mitigate those impacts. Consumers and businesses also may change their behavior on their own as a result of these concerns. Fifth Third and its customers will need to respond to new laws and regulations as well as consumer and business preferences resulting from climate change concerns. Fifth Third and its customers may face cost increases, asset value reductions, operating process changes, and the like. The impact on Fifth Third’s customers will likely vary depending on their specific attributes, including reliance on or role in carbon intensive activities. Fifth Third could experience a drop in demand for Fifth Third’s products and services, particularly in certain sectors. In addition, Fifth Third could face reductions in creditworthiness on the part of some customers or in the value of assets securing loans. Fifth Third’s efforts to take these risks into account in making lending and other decisions, including by increasing business relationships with climate-friendly companies, may not be effective in protecting Fifth Third from the negative impact of new laws and regulations or changes in consumer or business behavior.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds (Item 2)  Refer to the “Capital Management” section within Management’s Discussion and Analysis in Part I, Item 2 for information regarding purchases and sales of equity securities by the Bancorp during the first quarter of 2019.  Defaults Upon Senior Securities (Item 3)  None.  Mine Safety Disclosures (Item 4)  Not applicable.  Other Information (Item 5)  None.  Exhibits (Item 6)        