Item 1A: Risk factors  The following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could affect the Firm’s business and operations. Other factors that could affect the Firm’s business and operations are discussed in the “Forward looking statements” section on page 147. However, factors besides those discussed below, in the MD&A or elsewhere in this or other of the Firm’s reports filed or furnished with the SEC also could adversely affect the Firm’s business or results. The reader should not consider any descriptions of such factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that may face the Firm.  JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations could be adversely affected by U.S. and international markets and economic conditions. The Firm’s businesses are affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally both in the U.S. and internationally. Factors such as the liquidity of the global financial markets; the level and volatility of equity prices, interest rates and commodities prices; investor sentiment; inflation; and the availability and cost of credit can affect significantly the activity level of clients with respect to size, number and timing of transactions involving the Firm’s investment banking business, including its underwriting and advisory businesses. These factors also may affect the realization of cash returns from the Firm’s private equity business. A market downturn would likely lead to a decline in the volume of transactions that the Firm executes for its customers and, therefore, lead to a decline in the revenues it receives from trading commissions and spreads. In addition, lower market volatility will reduce trading and arbitrage opportunities, which could lead to lower trading revenues. Higher interest rates or weakness in the markets also could adversely affect the number or size of underwritings the Firm manages on behalf of clients and affect the willingness of financial sponsors or investors to participate in loan syndications or underwritings managed by JPMorgan Chase.  The Firm generally maintains large trading portfolios in the fixed income, currency, commodity and equity markets and has significant investment positions, including merchant banking investments held by its private equity business. The revenues derived from mark-to-market values of the Firm’s business are affected by many factors, including its credit standing; its success in proprietary positioning; volatility in interest rates and equity and debt markets; and other economic and business factors. JPMorgan Chase anticipates that revenues relating to its trading will experience volatility and there can be no assurance that such volatility relating to the above factors or other conditions could not materially adversely affect the Firm’s earnings.    The fees JPMorgan Chase earns for managing third-party assets are also dependent upon general economic conditions. For example, a higher level of U.S. or non-U.S. interest rates or a downturn in trading markets could affect the valuations of the third-party assets managed by the Firm, which, in turn, could affect the Firm’s revenues. Moreover, even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market or sub-par performance by JPMorgan Chase’s investment management businesses could result in outflows of assets under management and supervision and, therefore, reduce the fees the Firm receives.  The credit quality of JPMorgan Chase’s on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet assets may be affected by business conditions. In a poor economic environment there is a greater likelihood that more of the Firm’s customers or counterparties could become delinquent on their loans or other obligations to JPMorgan Chase which, in turn, could result in a higher level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses, all of which would adversely affect the Firm’s earnings.  The Firm’s consumer businesses are particularly affected by domestic economic conditions that can materially adversely affect such businesses and the Firm. Such conditions include U.S. interest rates; the rate of unemployment; the level of consumer confidence; changes in consumer spending; and the number of personal bankruptcies, among others. Certain changes to these conditions can diminish demand for businesses’ products and services, or increase the cost to provide such products and services. In addition, a deterioration in consumers’ credit quality could lead to an increase in loan delinquencies and higher net charge-offs, which could adversely affect the Firm’s earnings.  There is increasing competition in the financial services industry which may adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations. JPMorgan Chase operates in a highly competitive environment and expects competitive conditions to continue to intensify as continued merger activity in the financial services industry produces larger, better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies that are capable of offering a wider array of financial products and services at more competitive prices.  The Firm also faces an increasing array of competitors. Competitors include other banks, brokerage firms, investment banking companies, merchant banks, insurance companies, mutual fund companies, credit card companies, mortgage banking companies, hedge funds, trust companies, securities processing companies, automobile financing companies, leasing companies, e-commerce and other Internet-based companies, and a variety of other financial services and advisory companies. Technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made it possible for nondepository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products, and for financial institutions and other companies to provide electronic and Internet-based financial solutions, including electronic securities trading. JPMorgan Chase’s businesses generally compete on the basis of the quality and variety of its products and services, transaction execution, innovation, technology, reputation and price. Ongoing or increased competition in any one or all of these areas may put downward pressure on prices for the Firm’s products and services or may cause the Firm to lose market share. Increased competition also may require the Firm to make additional capital investment in its businesses in order to remain competitive. These investments may increase expenses or may require the Firm to extend more of its capital on behalf of clients in order to execute larger, more competitive transactions. There can be no assurance that the significant and increasing competition in the financial services industry will not materially adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s future results of operations.    4       Part I   JPMorgan Chase’s acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may not result in all of the benefits anticipated. The Firm has in the past and may in the future seek to grow its business by acquiring other businesses. There can be no assurance that the Firm’s acquisitions will have the anticipated positive results, including results relating to: the total cost of integration; the time required to complete the integration; the amount of longer-term cost savings; or the overall performance of the combined entity. Integration of an acquired business can be complex and costly, sometimes including combining relevant accounting and data processing systems and management controls, as well as managing relevant relationships with employees, clients, suppliers and other business partners.  There is no assurance that JPMorgan Chase’s most recent acquisitions or that any businesses acquired in the future will be successfully integrated and will result in all of the positive benefits anticipated. If JPMorgan Chase is not able to integrate successfully its past and any future acquisitions, there is the risk the Firm’s results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  JPMorgan Chase relies on its systems, employees and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely affect the Firm’s operations. The Firm’s businesses are dependent on its ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. If any of the Firm’s financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, the Firm could be materially adversely affected. The Firm is similarly dependent on its employees. The Firm could be materially adversely affected if a Firm employee causes a significant operational break down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates the Firm’s operations or systems. Third parties with which the Firm does business could also be sources of operational risk to the Firm, including relating to break downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in a diminished ability of the Firm to operate one or more of its businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect the Firm.  The Firm also may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages or natural disasters, such as Hurricane Katrina, or events arising from local or regional politics, including terrorist acts. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to the Firm.  In a firm as large and complex as JPMorgan Chase, lapses or deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting may occur from time to time, and there is no assurance that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal controls may not occur in the future.  In addition, there is the risk that the Firm’s controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect the Firm’s operations and could materially adversely affect its results of operations by requiring the Firm to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing the Firm to litigation or losses not covered by insurance.  JPMorgan Chase’s non-U.S. trading activities and operations are subject to risk of loss, particularly in emerging markets. The Firm does business throughout the world, including in developing regions of the world commonly known as emerging markets. In the past, many emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions,    including devaluations of their currencies and capital and currency exchange controls, as well as low or negative economic growth.  JPMorgan Chase’s businesses and revenues derived from non-U.S. operations are subject to risk of loss from various unfavorable political, economic and legal developments, including currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets and changes in legislation relating to non-U.S. ownership.  The Firm also invests in the securities of corporations located in non-U.S. jurisdictions, including emerging markets. Revenues from the trading of non-U.S. securities also may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above considerations. The impact of these fluctuations could be accentuated as non-U.S. trading markets (particularly in emerging markets) are usually smaller, less liquid and more volatile than U.S. trading markets. There can be no assurance the Firm will not suffer losses in the future arising from its non-U.S. trading activities or operations.  If JPMorgan Chase does not successfully handle issues that may arise in the conduct of its business and operations, its reputation could be damaged, which could in turn negatively affect its business. The Firm’s ability to attract and retain customers and transact with its counter-parties could be adversely affected to the extent its reputation is damaged. The failure of the Firm to deal, or to appear to fail to deal, with various issues that could give rise to reputational risk could cause harm to the Firm and its business prospects. These issues include, but are not limited to, appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money-laundering, privacy, record-keeping, sales and trading practices, and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in its products. The failure to address appropriately these issues could make the Firm’s clients unwilling to do business with the Firm, which could adversely affect the Firm’s results.  JPMorgan Chase operates within a highly regulated industry and its business and results are significantly affected by the regulations to which it is subject. JPMorgan Chase operates within a highly regulated environment. The regulations to which the Firm is subject will continue to have a significant impact on the Firm’s operations and the degree to which it can grow and be profitable.  Certain regulators to which the Firm is subject have significant power in reviewing the Firm’s operations and approving its business practices. Particularly in recent years, the Firm’s businesses have experienced increased regulation and regulatory scrutiny, often requiring additional Firm resources. In addition, as the Firm expands its international operations, its activities will become subject to an increasing range of non-U.S. laws and regulations that likely will impose new requirements and limitations on certain of the Firm’s operations. There is no assurance that any change to the current regulatory requirements to which JPMorgan Chase is subject, or the way in which such regulatory requirements are interpreted or enforced, will not have a negative effect on the Firm’s ability to conduct its business or its results of operations.  JPMorgan Chase faces significant legal risks, both from regulatory investigations and proceedings and from private actions brought against the Firm. JPMorgan Chase is named as a defendant or is otherwise involved in various legal proceedings, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies. These or other future actions brought against the Firm may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to the Firm,    5       Part I   which could materially adversely affect the Firm’s business, financial condition or results of operation, or cause it serious reputational harm.  JPMorgan Chase’s ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of its business and failure to do so may materially adversely affect its performance. The Firm’s employees are its most important resource and, in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. If JPMorgan Chase is unable to continue to retain and attract qualified employees, its performance, including its competitive position, could be materially adversely affected.  Government monetary policies and economic controls may have a significant adverse affect on JPMorgan Chase’s businesses and results of operations. The Firm’s businesses and earnings are affected by the fiscal and other policies that are adopted by various regulatory authorities of the United States, non-U.S. governments and international agencies. For example, policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board influence, directly and indirectly, the rate of interest paid by commercial banks on their interest-bearing deposits and also may affect the value of financial instruments held by the Firm. The actions of the Federal Reserve Board also determine to a significant degree the Firm’s cost of funds for lending and investing. In addition, these policies and conditions can adversely affect the Firm’s customers and counterparties, both in the United States and abroad, which may increase the risk that such customers or counterparties default on their obligations to JPMorgan Chase.  JPMorgan Chase’s framework for managing its risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to the Firm. JPMorgan Chase’s risk management framework is made up of various processes and strategies to manage the Firm’s risk exposure. Types of risk to which the Firm is subject include liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and reputational risk, fiduciary risk and private equity risk, among others. There can be no assurance that the Firm’s framework to manage risk, including such framework’s underlying assumptions, will be effective under all conditions and circumstances.  As the Firm’s businesses grow and the markets in which they operate continue to evolve, the Firm’s risk management framework may not always keep sufficient pace with those changes. For example, as the derivatives markets continue to grow and the Firm’s participation in these markets expands, there is the risk that the credit and market risks associated with new products may not be appropriately identified, monitored or managed or that the documentation of these trades by the Firm or its counterparties will not keep up with the increased pace of settlements. In addition, in the case of credit derivatives that require physical settlement of transactions, many market participants, including the Firm, do not always hold the underlying securities or loans relating to such derivatives; if the Firm is not able to obtain those securities or loans within the required timeframe for delivery, this could cause the Firm to forfeit payments otherwise due to it.  If the Firm’s risk management framework proves ineffective, whether because it does not keep pace with changing Firm or market circumstances or otherwise, the Firm could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.  If JPMorgan Chase does not effectively manage its liquidity, its business could be negatively affected. The Firm’s liquidity is critical to its ability to operate its businesses, grow and be profitable. A compromise to the Firm’s liquidity could therefore have a negative effect on the Firm. Potential conditions that could negatively affect the Firm’s liquidity include diminished access to capital markets, unforeseen cash or capital requirements and an inability to sell assets.    The Firm’s credit ratings are an important part of maintaining its liquidity, and a reduction in the Firm’s credit ratings would also negatively affect the Firm’s liquidity. A credit ratings downgrade, depending on its severity, could potentially increase borrowing costs, limit access to capital markets, require cash payments or collateral posting, and permit termination of certain contracts to which the Firm is a party.  Future events may be different than those anticipated by JPMorgan Chase’s management assumptions and estimates, which may cause unexpected losses in the future. Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, the Firm is required to use certain estimates in preparing its financial statements, including accounting estimates to determine loan loss reserves, reserves related to future litigation, and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. Should the Firm’s determined values for such items prove substantially inaccurate, the Firm may experience unexpected losses that could be material.  Item 1B: Unresolved SEC Staff comments