Item 1A. Risk Factors”, that the Company believes could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement.  Although the Company believes it has been prudent in its plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made. The Company undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.    54    Table of Contents   Item 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  For a discussion of the Company’s market risk, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in the Company’s 2007 Form 10-K.  In the nine months ended September 30, 2008, the Company sold $933 million notional amount of forward contracts (in several currencies) to partially hedge the exchange impact primarily related to forecasted intercompany inventory purchases for up to the next 14 months. In addition, in the first quarter of 2008, the Company entered into an aggregate $600 million notional amount 30-year forward starting interest rate swaps terminating in June 2008 with several financial institutions in order to hedge the variability in forecasted interest expense resulting from the probable issuance of debt in 2008. The forward starting interest rate swaps were settled on April 30, 2008 at a loss of $19 million. The loss is being deferred in other comprehensive income/(loss) and will be amortized to interest expense over the life of the 6.125% Notes due 2038. Furthermore, in the nine months ended September 30, 2008, the Company executed several fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps to convert $1.2 billion of the $1.6 billion fixed rate debt to be paid in 2018 and 2038 to variable rate debt.  In the nine months ended September 30, 2008, the Company recognized an impairment charge of $247 million on its ARS portfolio. In addition, at September 30, 2008, the Company recognized unrealized losses of $27 million related to ARS and $79 million related to FRS in accumulated other comprehensive income. If deterioration in the credit and capital markets continue, or if the Company experiences any additional ratings downgrades on any investments in its ARS and FRS portfolio, the Company may incur additional impairments to its investment portfolio, which could negatively affect the Company’s financial condition, cash flow and reported earnings. The Company believes that, based on the Company’s current level of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and expected operating cash flows, the current lack of liquidity in the credit and capital markets will not have a material impact on the Company’s liquidity, cash flow, financial flexibility or its ability to fund its operations, including the dividend.  Item 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  Management of the Company, with the participation of its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. Based on their evaluation, as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10-Q, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) are effective.  PART II—OTHER INFORMATION      Item 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  Information pertaining to legal proceedings can be found in “Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 20. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies,” to the interim consolidated financial statements, and is incorporated by reference herein.      Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  There have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in the Company’s 2007 Form 10-K, except for the following:  Data protection for PLAVIX* has expired in the EU and PLAVIX* faces competition in European markets this year.  Data protection for PLAVIX* expired on July 15, 2008 in the European Union (EU). In most of the major markets within Europe, the product benefits from national patents, expiring in 2013, which specifically claim the bisulfate form of clopidogrel. In the remainder of EU member states, however, where there is no composition-of-matter patent covering clopidogrel bisulfate, competitors are seeking regulatory authority to enter those markets with generic clopidogrel bisulfate. In addition, at least one group of competitor companies has received marketing authorization for, and has started to market, an alternate salt form of clopidogrel in Germany. These competitor companies have announced that they plan to seek marketing authorization in other EU countries in addition to Germany. At this time, the Company cannot estimate reliably the impact of any such competition on the Company’s financial results.    55    Table of Contents   Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS