Item 1A. Risk Factors”, that the Company believes could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement.  Although the Company believes it has been prudent in its plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made. The Company undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.    41       Item 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  For a discussion of the Company’s market risk, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in the Company’s 2007 Form 10-K.  In the three months ended March 31, 2008, the Company sold $649 million notional amount of forward contracts (in several currencies) to partially hedge the exchange impact primarily related to forecasted intercompany inventory purchases for up to the next 18 months. Furthermore, the Company entered into an aggregate $600 million notional amount 30-year forward starting swap terminating in June 2008 with several financial institutions in order to hedge the variability in forecasted interest expense resulting from the probable issuance of debt in 2008, the proceeds of which will be used, in part, to refinance debt that is expected to mature in 2008.       Item 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  Management of the Company, with the participation of its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. Based on their evaluation, as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10-Q, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) are effective.    42     PART II—OTHER INFORMATION       Item 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  Information pertaining to legal proceedings can be found in “Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies,” to the interim consolidated financial statements, and is incorporated by reference herein.       Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  There have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in the Company’s 2007 Form 10-K.       Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS