Item 1A. Risk Factors,” that the Company believes could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement.  Although the Company believes it has been prudent in its plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made. The Company undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.    67    Table of Contents Item 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  For a discussion of the Company’s market risk, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in the Company’s 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  See “Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 21. Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt” and “—Note 22. Financial Instruments” for information regarding executions and termination of fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps in connection with the repurchase of certain debt securities.  Item 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  Management of the Company, with the participation of its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. Based on their evaluation, as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10-Q, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) are effective.  In the first quarter of 2009, the Company upgraded and integrated its SAP general ledger with a new consolidation and financial reporting warehouse.  PART II—OTHER INFORMATION  Item 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  Information pertaining to legal proceedings can be found in “Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 23. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies,” to the interim consolidated financial statements, and is incorporated by reference herein.  Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  There have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in the Company’s 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.    68    Table of Contents Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS