Item 1A. Risk Factors,” that the Company believes could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement.  Although the Company believes it has been prudent in its plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made. The Company undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.    51    Table of Contents Item 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  For a discussion of the Company’s market risk, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in the Company’s 2008 Form 10-K.  In the first quarter of 2009, the Company sold $100 million notional amount of forward contracts (in several currencies) to partially hedge the exchange impact primarily related to forecasted intercompany inventory purchases for up to the next 11 months.  In the first quarter of 2009, the Company terminated $1,061 million notional amount of fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements for proceeds of $187 million. The basis adjustment on the debt, which was equal to the proceeds from this swap termination, is being recognized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining life of the underlying debt.  In April 2009, the Company executed several fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps to convert $597 million of its 5.25% Notes due 2013 from fixed rate debt to variable rate debt.  Item 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  Management of the Company, with the participation of its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. Based on their evaluation, as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10-Q, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) are effective.  The Company upgraded and integrated its SAP general ledger with a new consolidation and financial reporting warehouse in the three months ended March 31, 2009.  PART II—OTHER INFORMATION   Item 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  Information pertaining to legal proceedings can be found in “Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies,” to the interim consolidated financial statements, and is incorporated by reference herein.  Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  There have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in the Company’s 2008 Form 10-K.  Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS