Item 1A. Risk Factors,” that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement.  Although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.    45    Table of Contents Item 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  For a discussion of our market risk, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Item 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  Management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based on their evaluation, as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10-Q, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) are effective.  In August 2012, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the Company) completed its acquisition of Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amylin) which represents a material change in the internal control over financial reporting since management’s last assessment of effectiveness. Amylin’s operations utilize separate information and accounting systems and processes and it was not possible to complete an evaluation and review of the internal controls over financial reporting since the completion of the acquisition. Management intends to complete its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting for Amylin within one year of the acquisition date. Excluding the Amylin acquisition, there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that have or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.  PART II—OTHER INFORMATION  Item 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  Information pertaining to legal proceedings can be found in “Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 17. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies,” to the interim consolidated financial statements, and is incorporated by reference herein.   Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  There have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in the Company’s 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Item 2. ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES