Item 1A. Risk Factors,” that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement.Although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.Item 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKFor a discussion of our market risk, refer to “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Item 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURESManagement, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based on their evaluation, as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10-Q, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) are effective.There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.PART II—OTHER INFORMATIONItem 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSInformation pertaining to legal proceedings can be found in “Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 18. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies,” to the interim consolidated financial statements, and is incorporated by reference herein.Item 1A. RISK FACTORSThere have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in the Company’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.38Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS