Item 1A. Risk Factors,” that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement.Although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made. Additional risks that we may currently deem immaterial or that are not presently known to us could also cause the forward-looking events discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q not to occur. Except as otherwise required by federal securities law, we undertake no obligation to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.38Item 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKFor a discussion of our market risk, refer to “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our 2018 Form 10-K.Item 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURESManagement carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of its chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e), as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that as of March 31, 2019, such disclosure controls and procedures are effective.There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended March 31, 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.PART II—OTHER INFORMATIONItem 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSInformation pertaining to legal proceedings can be found in “Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 18. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies,” to the interim consolidated financial statements, and is incorporated by reference herein.Item 1A. RISK FACTORSThere have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in the Company’s 2018 Form 10-K.Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS