Item 1(a). Risk FactorsThe statements in this section describe the known material risks to our business and should be considered carefully. The risk factor below updates the respective risk factor previously discussed in our 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We, among others, have been named as a defendant in numerous lawsuits and there have been numerous investigations relating to the Macondo well incident that could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. The semisubmersible drilling rig, Deepwater Horizon, sank on April 22, 2010 after an explosion and fire onboard the rig that began on April 20, 2010. The Deepwater Horizon was owned by an affiliate of Transocean Ltd. and had been drilling the Macondo exploration well in Mississippi Canyon Block 252 in the Gulf of Mexico for the lease operator, BP Exploration & Production, Inc. (BP Exploration), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of BP p.l.c. (BP p.l.c., BP Exploration, and their affiliates, collectively, as applicable, BP). There were eleven fatalities and a number of injuries as a result of the Macondo well incident. Crude oil flowing from the Macondo well site spread across thousands of square miles of the Gulf of Mexico and reached the United States Gulf Coast. We performed a variety of services for BP, including cementing, mud logging, directional drilling, measurement-while-drilling, and rig data acquisition services.We are named along with other unaffiliated defendants in more than 1,800 complaints, most of which are alleged class-actions, involving pollution damage claims and at least six personal injury lawsuits involving three decedents and at least two allegedly injured persons who were on the drilling rig at the time of the incident. At least six additional lawsuits naming us and others relate to alleged personal injuries sustained by those responding to the explosion and oil spill. Other defendants in the lawsuits have filed claims against us seeking subrogation, indemnification, including with respect to liabilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA), contribution and direct damages, and alleging negligence, gross negligence, fraudulent conduct, willful misconduct, and fraudulent concealment. See Note 6 to the condensed consolidated financial statements. Additional lawsuits may be filed against us, including civil actions under federal statutes and regulations, as well as criminal and civil actions under state statutes and regulations. Those statutes and regulations could result in criminal penalties, including fines and imprisonment, as well as civil fines, and the degree of the penalties and fines may depend on the type of conduct and level of culpability, including strict liability, negligence, gross negligence, and knowing violations of the statute or regulation.In October 2011, the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) issued a notification of Incidents of Noncompliance (INCs) to us for allegedly violating federal regulations relating to the failure to take measures to prevent the unauthorized release of hydrocarbons, the failure to take precautions to keep the Macondo well under control, the failure to cement the well in a manner that would, among other things, prevent the release of fluids into the Gulf of Mexico, and the failure to protect health, safety, property, and the environment as a result of a failure to perform operations in a safe and workmanlike manner. According to the BSEE's notice, we did not ensure an adequate barrier to hydrocarbon flow after cementing the production casing and did not detect the influx of hydrocarbons until they were above the blowout preventer stack. We understand that the regulations in effect at the time of the alleged violations provide for fines of up to $35,000 per day per violation. We have appealed the INCs to the Interior Board of Land Appeals (IBLA). In January 2012, the IBLA, in response to our and the BSEE's joint request, suspended the appeal pending certain proceedings in the multi-district litigation (MDL) trial. At the conclusion of the suspension of the appeal, we expect to file a proposal for further action within 60 days. The BSEE has announced that the INCs will be reviewed for possible imposition of civil penalties once the appeal has ended. The BSEE has stated that this is the first time the Department of the Interior has issued INCs directly to a contractor that was not the well's operator.Our contract with BP relating to the Macondo well generally provides for our indemnification by BP for certain claims and expenses relating to the Macondo well incident. BP, in connection with filing its claims with respect to the MDL proceeding, asked the court to declare that it is not liable to us in contribution, indemnification, or otherwise with respect to liabilities arising from the Macondo well incident. Other defendants in the litigation have generally denied any obligation to contribute to any liabilities arising from the Macondo well incident. In January 2012, the MDL court entered an order regarding certain indemnification matters. The court held that BP is required to indemnify us for third-party compensatory claims, or actual damages, that arise from pollution or contamination that did not originate from our property or equipment located above the surface of the land or water, even if we were found to be grossly negligent. The court also held, however, that BP does not owe us indemnity for punitive damages or for civil penalties under the Clean Water Act (CWA), if any. In September 2014, we reached an agreement, subject to court approval, to settle a substantial portion of the plaintiffs’ claims asserted against us relating to the Macondo well incident (our MDL Settlement). Pursuant to our MDL Settlement, we agreed to pay an aggregate of $1.1 billion, which includes legal fees and costs, into a trust in three installments over the next 32Table of Contentstwo years, except that one installment of legal fees will not be paid until all of the conditions to our MDL Settlement have been satisfied or waived. Under our MDL Settlement, (1) a class of plaintiffs alleging physical damage to property or damages associated with the commercial fishing industry arising from the Macondo well incident agree to release all claims against us for punitive damages and (2) class members of the BP April 2012 economic loss settlement agree to release the claims against us that BP assigned to them in that settlement. Certain conditions must be satisfied before our MDL Settlement becomes effective, and our MDL Settlement does not cover all claims asserted against us in the MDL. Subsequently in September 2014, the MDL court ruled (Phase One Ruling) that, among other things, (1) in relation to the Macondo well incident, BP’s conduct was reckless, Transocean’s conduct was negligent, and our conduct was negligent, (2) fault for the Macondo blowout, explosion, and spill is apportioned 67% to BP, 30% to Transocean, and 3% to us, and (3) the indemnity and release clauses in our contract with BP are valid and enforceable against BP. The MDL court did not find that our conduct was grossly negligent. For additional information relating to our MDL Settlement and the Phase One Ruling, see Note 6 to the condensed consolidated financial statements.As of September 30, 2014, our existing loss contingency liability related to the Macondo well incident was reduced from $1.3 billion to $1.2 billion as a result of our MDL Settlement and the Phase One Ruling. The $1.2 billion represents a loss contingency related to our MDL Settlement as well as an additional loss contingency of $72 million unrelated to our MDL Settlement that is probable and for which a reasonable estimate of a loss can be made. Our loss contingency liability does not include potential recoveries from our insurers or indemnification by BP. Because our MDL Settlement is subject to court approval and other conditions and the Phase One Ruling is subject to appeals, we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of the many lawsuits, investigations, and other matters relating to the Macondo well incident, including appeals of the Phase One Ruling, further orders and rulings of the MDL court and other courts, and indemnification and insurance arrangements. BP has announced that it will immediately appeal the Phase One Ruling to the Fifth Circuit and that it believes the findings that it was grossly negligent and that its activities at the Macondo well amounted to willful misconduct are not supported by the evidence at trial. In addition, our insurance carriers for approximately $200 million of insurance have notified us that they do not intend to reimburse us for any amounts with respect to our MDL Settlement. We are unable to predict whether or when the court will approve our MDL Settlement or whether or when the conditions of our MDL Settlement will be satisfied. As a result of the various potential developments relating to the Macondo well incident, there are additional loss contingencies relating to the Macondo well incident that are reasonably possible but for which we cannot make a reasonable estimate. Accordingly, we may adjust our estimated loss contingency liability and our amounts recoverable from insurance in the future. In addition, applicable accounting rules and guidance may require us to recognize a loss contingency for which we may be fully indemnified, without recognizing a corresponding receivable for the amount of the indemnity payment. Depending on the outcome of the various potential developments relating to the Macondo well incident, liabilities arising out of the incident could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. 33Table of ContentsItem 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds