Item 1(a). Risk Factors The statements in this section describe the known material risks to our business and should be considered carefully. The risk factor below updates the respective risk factor previously discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016. As of September 30, 2017, there have been no other material changes in risk factors previously disclosed.Our business in Venezuela subjects us to actions by the Venezuelan government, sanctions imposed or other actions by the U.S. and foreign governments, the risk of delayed payments, and currency risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. There are risks associated with our operations in Venezuela, which continues to experience significant political and economic turmoil, including the possibility that the Venezuelan government could assume control over our operations and assets. The political and economic conditions have deteriorated further in 2017, leading to uncertainty in the future business climate, the state of security, and governance of the country. This environment increases the risk of civil unrest, armed conflicts, adverse actions by the government of Venezuela, or imposition of additional sanctions or other actions by the U.S. and foreign governments that may restrict our ability to continue operations or realize the value of our assets. In July 2017, the U.S. Government announced sanctions on 13 Venezuelan individuals, including a current employee of our primary customer in Venezuela. In August 2017, the U.S. Government imposed additional economic sanctions around certain financing transactions in Venezuela. These new sanctions prohibit dealings by our U.S. employees and entities in new debt issued by our primary customer in Venezuela or the Venezuelan Government, dealings in certain existing Venezuelan government bonds, as well as dividend payments or other profit distributions to the Venezuelan Government. These sanctions could delay our ability to execute the promissory note exchange discussed further in Note 2 to the condensed consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that other sanctions affecting our business in Venezuela will not be imposed in the future. Any such sanctions may have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate in Venezuela.We have continued to experience delays in collecting payments on our receivables from our primary customer in Venezuela, and this customer did not make the first scheduled principal payment on our $200 million promissory note, which they informed us was due to banking complications. While we believe that our customer will make all required payments on this note, further delays in payment on this promissory note or defaults on the customer's indebtedness to other parties may lead to a default on this promissory note. This would result in an impairment charge on the existing carrying amount of this note and potentially further charges on other receivables with this customer. If conditions continue to worsen in the country and we experience further delays or failure in receiving payment on our remaining receivables, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. The future results of our Venezuelan operations will be affected by many factors, including the foreign currency exchange rate, actions of the Venezuelan government, and general economic conditions such as continued inflation and future customer payments and spending. For further information, see Note 2 to the condensed consolidated financial statements and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Business Environment and Results of Operations - International operations - Venezuela."26Table of ContentsItem 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds