Item 1(a). Risk Factors The statements in this section describe the known material risks to our business and should be considered carefully. The risk factor below updates the respective risk factor previously discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. As of March 31, 2018, there have been no other material changes in risk factors previously disclosed.Our business in Venezuela subjects us to actions by the Venezuelan government, sanctions imposed or other actions by the U.S. and foreign governments, the risk of delayed payments and currency risks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. There are risks associated with our operations in Venezuela, which continues to experience significant political and economic turmoil. The political and economic conditions deteriorated through the first quarter of 2018, leading to uncertainty in the future business climate, the state of security and governance of the country. This environment increases the risk of civil unrest, armed conflicts, adverse actions by the government of Venezuela, including the possibility that the Venezuelan government could assume control over our operations and assets, and imposition of additional sanctions or other actions by the U.S. and foreign governments that may restrict our ability to continue operations or realize the value of our assets. In 2017, the U.S. Government announced sanctions directed at certain Venezuelan individuals and imposed additional economic sanctions around certain trade financing transactions in Venezuela. These sanctions prohibit dealings by our U.S. employees and entities in certain new debt issued by our primary customer in Venezuela or the Venezuelan government as well as dealings in existing Venezuelan government bonds. In February 2018, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the U.S. Department of the Treasury issued additional guidance on these sanctions regarding the prohibited acceptance of late payments. For invoices issued subsequent to August 25, 2017 related to products and services provided to customers subject to these sanctions, we can no longer accept payment on receivables with a maturity longer than 90 days in the absence of an OFAC license. There can be no assurance that other sanctions affecting our business in Venezuela will not be imposed in the future that may have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate in Venezuela. We have continued to experience delays in collecting payments on our receivables from our primary customer in Venezuela, including recent delays in multiple scheduled payments on our existing promissory note. On January 29, 2018, the Venezuelan government announced that it has changed the existing dual-rate foreign exchange system by eliminating the DIPRO foreign exchange rate, which was 10 Bolívares per United States dollar, and all future currency transactions will be carried out at the DICOM floating rate, which was approximately 50,000 Bolívares per United States dollar at March 31, 2018. These recent events regarding foreign exchange and U.S. sanctions, combined with continued deteriorating political and economic conditions in Venezuela and ongoing delayed payments on existing accounts receivable with customers in the country, created significant uncertainties regarding the recoverability of our investment. As such, we determined it was appropriate to write down all of our remaining investment in Venezuela, which resulted in a $312 million charge, net of tax, in our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The future results of our Venezuelan operations will be affected by many factors, including the foreign currency exchange rate, actions of the Venezuelan government, general economic conditions such as continued inflation, existing or future sanctions, future customer spending and the ability of our primary customer to pay its debts. For further information, see Note 2 to the condensed consolidated financial statements and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Business Environment and Results of Operations - International operations - Venezuela."21Table of ContentsItem 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds