Item 1A Risk Factors" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. These factors may be revised or supplemented in subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Current Reports on Form 8-K. ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We are exposed to potential fluctuations in earnings, cash flows and the fair value of certain of our assets and liabilities due to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. To manage the risk from these exposures, we enter into a variety of derivative instruments. We do not enter into derivatives or financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. The following discussion describes our specific exposures and the strategies we use to manage these risks. There have been no changes in our critical accounting policies for financial instruments and derivatives as discussed in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Foreign Exchange RiskWe are subject to foreign exchange rate risk. Our primary exposures include exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, the British Pound, the Canadian Dollar, the Australian Dollar, and the Indian Rupee. We use over-the-counter options and forward contracts to reduce the impact of foreign currency risk to our financial statements. Additionally, some of our non-U.S. brokerage subsidiaries receive revenues in currencies that differ from their functional currencies. Our U.K. subsidiaries earn a portion of their revenue in U.S. Dollars and Euros, but most of their expenses are incurred in British Pounds. At September 30, 2016, we have hedged approximately 45% of our U.K. subsidiaries' expected exposures to both U.S. Dollar and Euro transactions for the years ending December 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively. We generally do not hedge exposures beyond three years.We also use forward contracts to economically hedge foreign exchange risk associated with monetary balance sheet exposures, such as inter-company notes and short-term assets and liabilities that are denominated in a non-functional currency and are subject to remeasurement. The translated value of revenue and expense from our international brokerage operations are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. If the Company were to translate prior year results at current quarter exchange rates, diluted earnings per share would be a favorable impact of approximately $0.02 during the three months ended September 30, 2016 and would be an unfavorable impact of $0.03 during the nine months ended September 30, 2016. Further, adjusted diluted earnings per share, a non-GAAP measure as defined and reconciled under the caption "Review of Consolidated Results — Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share" would be a favorable impact of $0.01 during the three months ended September 30, 2016 and would be an unfavorable impact of $0.04 during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 if the Company were to translate prior year results at current quarter exchange rates. 57Interest Rate RiskOur fiduciary investment income is affected by changes in international and domestic short-term interest rates. We monitor our net exposure to short-term interest rates and, as appropriate, hedge our exposure with various derivative financial instruments. This activity primarily relates to brokerage funds held on behalf of clients in the U.S. and in continental Europe. A decrease in global short-term interest rates adversely affects our fiduciary investment income. ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.  We have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report of September 30, 2016. Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective such that the information relating to Aon, including our consolidated subsidiaries, required to be disclosed in our SEC reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in appropriate statute, SEC rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to Aon's management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Changes in internal control over financial reporting.  No changes in Aon's internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) occurred during the quarter ended September 30, 2016 that have materially affected, or that are reasonably likely to materially affect, Aon's internal control over financial reporting.58PART II OTHER INFORMATION ITEM 1.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Note 14 "Commitments and Contingencies — Legal" to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part I, Item 1 of this report, which is incorporated by reference herein. ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The risk factors set forth in Part I, "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 reflect certain risks associated with existing and potential lines of business and contain "forward-looking statements" as discussed in Part I, Item 2 of this report. Readers should consider them in addition to the other information contained in this report as our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of these risks actually occur.ITEM 2.  UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS