Item 1A Risk Factors of this report and in the “Risk Factors” section in Part I, “Item 1A Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. These factors may be revised or supplemented in subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Current Reports on Form 8-K.Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk We are exposed to potential fluctuations in earnings, cash flows and the fair value of certain of our assets and liabilities due to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. To manage the risk from these exposures, we enter into a variety of derivative instruments. We do not enter into derivatives or financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.The following discussion describes our specific exposures and the strategies we use to manage these risks. There have been no changes in our critical accounting policies for financial instruments and derivatives as discussed in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Foreign Exchange RiskWe are subject to foreign exchange rate risk. Our primary exposures include exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, the British Pound, the Canadian Dollar, the Australian Dollar, and the Indian Rupee. We use over-the-counter options and forward contracts to reduce the impact of foreign currency risk to our financial statements.Additionally, some of our non-U.S. brokerage subsidiaries receive revenue in currencies that differ from their functional currencies. Our U.K. subsidiaries earn a portion of their revenue in U.S. Dollars and Euros, but most of their expenses are incurred in British Pounds. At June 30, 2017, we have hedged approximately 45% of our U.K. subsidiaries’ expected exposures to both U.S. Dollar and Euro transactions for the years ending December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. We generally do not hedge exposures beyond three years.We also use forward contracts to economically hedge foreign exchange risk associated with monetary balance sheet exposures, such as inter-company notes and short-term assets and liabilities that are denominated in a non-functional currency and are subject to remeasurement.The translated value of revenue and expense from our international brokerage operations are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. If we were to translate prior year results at current quarter exchange rates, diluted earnings per share would have a favorable impact of $0.05 during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017. Further, adjusted diluted earnings per share, a non-GAAP measure as defined and reconciled under the caption “Review of Consolidated Results — Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share” would have a favorable impact of $0.02 and $0.01, respectively, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 if we were to translate prior year results at current quarter exchange rates.60Interest Rate RiskOur fiduciary investment income is affected by changes in international and domestic short-term interest rates. We monitor our net exposure to short-term interest rates and, as appropriate, hedge our exposure with various derivative financial instruments. This activity primarily relates to brokerage funds held on behalf of clients in the U.S. and in continental Europe. A decrease in global short-term interest rates adversely affects our fiduciary investment income.Item 4. Controls and ProceduresEvaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.  We have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report of June 30, 2017. Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective such that the information relating to Aon, including our consolidated subsidiaries, required to be disclosed in our SEC reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in appropriate statute, SEC rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to Aon’s management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.Changes in internal control over financial reporting.  No changes in Aon’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) occurred during the quarter ended June 30, 2017 that have materially affected, or that are reasonably likely to materially affect, Aon’s internal control over financial reporting.61Part II Other Information Item 1. Legal Proceedings See Note 16 “Commitments and Contingencies — Legal” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part I, Item 1 of this report, which is incorporated by reference herein.Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe risk factors set forth in Part I, “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 reflect certain risks associated with existing and potential lines of business and contain “forward-looking statements” as discussed in Part I, Item 2 of this report. Readers should consider them in addition to the other information contained in this report as our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of these risks actually occur.Except as otherwise described below, there were no material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in our 2016 From 10-k. We have added the risk factor “We may not realize all of the expected benefits from our restructuring plan.” We have replaced the risk factor, “We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in connection with the pending sale of our Benefits and Administration and HR Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) Platform” with “We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in connection with the sale of our Benefits Administration and HR Business Process Outsourcing business.”We may not realize all of the expected benefits from our restructuring plan.In 2017, we initiated a global restructuring plan (the “Restructuring Plan”) in connection with the sale of our benefits administration and business process outsourcing business. The Restructuring Plan is intended to streamline operations across the organization and deliver greater efficiency, insight and connectivity. We expect these restructuring activities and related expenses to affect continuing operations through 2019, including an estimated 2,400 to 2,850 role eliminations. The Restructuring Plan is expected to result in cumulative costs of approximately $750 million through the end of the Restructuring Plan, consisting of approximately $303 million in employee termination costs, $146 million in IT rationalization costs, $80 million in real estate realization costs, $40 million in asset impairment costs and $181 million in other costs associated with the restructuring. Included in the estimated $750 million is $50 million of estimated non-cash charges related to asset impairments and lease consolidations. We estimate that our annualized savings from the Restructuring Plan will be approximately $400 million by the end of 2019. Actual total costs, savings and timing of the Restructuring Plan may vary from these estimates due to changes in the scope or assumptions underlying the Restructuring Plan. We therefore cannot assure that we will achieve the targeted savings. Unanticipated costs or unrealized savings in connection with the Restructuring Plan could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in connection with the sale of our Benefits Administration and HR Business Process Outsourcing business.On February 9, 2017, we entered into a Purchase Agreement with Tempo Acquisition, LLC to sell our benefits administration and business process outsourcing business to the Buyer, an entity controlled by affiliates of The Blackstone Group L.P. On May 1, 2017, the transaction was consummated and the Buyer purchased all of the outstanding equity interests in each of the Divested Business’s subsidiaries, plus certain related assets, for a purchase price of (i) $4.3 billion in cash paid at closing, subject to customary adjustments set forth in the Purchase Agreement, and (ii) deferred consideration of up to $500 million, plus the assumption of certain liabilities.The Transaction carries inherent risks, including the risk that Aon will not earn the $500 million of additional consideration or otherwise realize the intended value of the Transaction, as well as risks connected with separating the Divested Business from Aon. Because the Divested Business represented 19% of our gross revenues for the fiscal year 2016, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected, or may not be accretive to adjusted earnings per share as anticipated, if we fail to effectively reduce our overhead costs to reflect the reduced scale of operations or fail to grow our other business as expected. Additionally, the separation of the Divested Businesses from the rest of Aon’s business will require significant resources, which may disrupt operations or divert management’s attention from Aon’s day-today operations and efforts to grow our other businesses. Furthermore, we have entered into ongoing commercial arrangements with the Buyer. If we do not realize the intended benefits of these arrangements, it could affect our results of operations or adversely affect our relationship with clients, partners, colleagues 62and other third parties. Additionally, if the Divested Business does not deliver the level of service to which our clients and partners are accustomed, it could adversely affect our relationships with such third parties.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds