Item 1A. Risk Factors.  Our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008 includes a detailed discussion of the risk factors applicable to us, which are also set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” in Item 2 of Part I of this Form 10-Q, as updated since the filing of our Form 10-K to reflect certain material changes as set forth below in bold. Other than as set forth below in bold, there are no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008.  The ongoing volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy, have significantly affected our results of operations and may continue to put pressure on our financial results. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing substantial volatility and disruption for some time. The decline in global market conditions has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant decreases in our assets under management, revenues and income. Such declines have and may continue to have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Even if legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, we may need to modify our business, strategies or operations, and we may be subject to additional constraints or costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment.  The amount and mix of our assets under management are subject to significant fluctuations. Such fluctuations may be attributable in part to market conditions outside of our control that have had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on our revenues and income. We derive the majority of our operating revenues and net income from providing investment management and related services. The level of our revenues depends largely on the level and mix of assets under management. Any decrease in the value or amount of our assets under management because of market volatility or other factors negatively impacts our revenues and income. We are subject to an increased risk of asset volatility from changes in the global financial and equity markets. Individual financial and equity markets may be adversely affected by economic, political, financial, or other instabilities that are particular to the country or regions in which a market is located, including without limitation local acts of terrorism, economic crises or other business, social or political crises. Declines in these markets have caused in the past, and would cause in the future, a decline in our revenues and income. Global economic conditions, exacerbated by war or terrorism or financial crises, changes in the equity market place, currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve, defaults by derivative counterparties and other factors that are difficult to predict affect the mix, market values and levels of our assets under management. The funds we manage may be subject to an unanticipated large number of redemptions as a result of such events, causing the funds to sell securities they hold, possibly at a loss, or draw on any available lines of credit to obtain cash to settle these redemptions, or settle in-kind with securities held in the applicable fund. The Company, in its discretion, may also provide financial support to a fund to enable it to maintain sufficient liquidity in such event. Our investment management services revenues are derived primarily from fees based on a percentage of the value of assets under management and vary with the nature of the account or product managed. A decline in the price of stocks or bonds, or in particular market segments, or in the securities market generally, could cause the value and returns on our assets under management to decline, resulting in a decline in our revenues and income. Moreover, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and U.S. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenue and income depending upon the nature of our assets under management and the level of management fees we earn based on them. Additionally, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix towards fixed-income products and a related decline in our revenue and income, as we generally derive higher fee revenues and income from equity assets than from fixed-income products we manage. On the other hand, increases in interest rates, in particular if rapid, or high interest rates, as well as any uncertainty in the future direction of interest rates, may have a negative impact on our fixed-income products as rising interest rates or interest rate uncertainty typically decrease the total return on many bond investments due to lower market valuations of existing bonds. Any decrease in the level of our assets under management resulting from price declines, interest rate volatility or uncertainty, increased redemptions or other factors could negatively impact our revenues and income.  Our investment management business operations are complex and a failure to properly perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of our products and services could have an adverse effect on our revenues and income. Through our subsidiaries, we provide investment management and related services to various investment companies, funds and other sponsored investment products. Our investment management and related services include fund administration, shareholder services, transfer agency, underwriting, distribution, custodial, trustee and other fiduciary services. In order to be competitive, we must properly perform our fund and portfolio administration and related responsibilities, including portfolio recordkeeping and accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net     50     asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders. In addition, the intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of our products and services in advertising materials, public relations information or other external communications could adversely affect our reputation and business prospects. Further, certain of our subsidiaries may act as general partner for various investment partnerships, which may subject them to liability for the partnerships’ liabilities. If we fail to properly perform and monitor our investment management operations, our business could suffer and our revenues and income could be adversely affected.  Our business could be negatively affected if we or our banking subsidiaries fail to remain well capitalized. Our bank and thrift subsidiaries are subject to significant regulation and supervision, which includes minimum regulatory capital standards. The Company is also subject to minimum regulatory capital standards because it is a bank holding company and financial holding company registered with the FRB under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. The Company and its bank and thrift subsidiaries are currently well capitalized under applicable guidelines. However, our business could be negatively affected if the Company or its bank or thrift subsidiaries failed to remain well capitalized. For example, because our bank and thrift subsidiaries are well capitalized and we otherwise qualify as a financial holding company, we are permitted to engage in a broader range of activities than are permitted to a bank holding company. Loss of financial holding company status would require that we either cease these broader activities or divest our bank subsidiary. In addition, the banking regulators are authorized (and sometimes required) to impose a wide range of requirements, conditions, and restrictions on banks, thrifts, and bank holding companies that fail to maintain adequate capital levels.  Liquidity needs could affect our banking business. Our banking business may be subject to an unanticipated large number of withdrawals as a result of a number of factors, such as changed or unstable economic conditions, adverse trends or events, business closings and lay-offs, rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, and returns available to clients on alternative investments. Our banking subsidiaries may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity, such as the sale of investment securities, Federal Home Loan Bank advances and federal funds lines to enable them to meet such withdrawal demands. These secondary sources may not be sufficient to meet liquidity needs.   We are dependent on the earnings of our subsidiaries. Substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries, as a result, our cash flow and our ability to fund operations are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of earnings, loans or other payments by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to provide us with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. Any payments to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions and are contingent upon our subsidiaries’ earnings and business considerations.  Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.