Item 1A. Risk Factors.  Our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009 includes a detailed discussion of the risk factors applicable to us, which are also set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” in Item 2 of Part I of this Form 10-Q, as updated since the filing of our Form 10-K to reflect certain material changes as set forth below in bold. Other than as set forth below in bold, there are no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009.  We are subject to extensive and complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations. Our investment management and related services business and our banking/finance business are subject to extensive and complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations in the countries in which we operate, including, among others, securities, banking, accounting and tax laws and regulations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Reform Act”). The Reform Act, as well as other legislative and regulatory changes, could impose additional restrictions and limitations on us and will likely result in increased scrutiny and oversight of our financial services and products.  In addition, we are a bank holding company and a financial holding company subject to the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve Board (the “FRB”) and are subject to the restrictions, limitations, or prohibitions of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The provisions of the Reform Act are expected to have an impact on our banking/finance business. Significant aspects of the Reform Act relate to changes in the regulation of banks, thrifts, holding companies, and related institutions, including with respect to regulation and supervision in the banking industry and, the imposition of various restrictions and limitations on certain activities. The Reform Act includes a number of measures that increase capital and liquidity requirements, impose limits on leverage, and enhance supervisory authority and regulatory oversight of non-banking entities. We are not able to predict at this time the specific guidelines or regulations that may be adopted by regulatory agencies having authority over us or the impact that any changes in regulation would have on our business. The FRB may impose additional limitations or restrictions on our activities, including if the FRB believes that we do not have the appropriate financial and managerial resources to commence or conduct an activity or make an acquisition. Further, our subsidiary, Fiduciary Trust, is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and New York State Banking Department, while other subsidiaries are subject to oversight by the Office of Thrift Supervision and various state regulators. The laws and regulations imposed by these regulators generally involve restrictions and requirements in connection with a variety of technical, specialized, and expanding matters and concerns. For example, compliance with anti-money laundering and Know-Your-Customer requirements, both domestically and internationally, and the Bank Secrecy Act has taken on heightened importance with regulators as a result of efforts to, among other things, limit terrorism. At the same time, there has been increased regulation with respect to the protection of customer privacy and the need to secure sensitive customer information. As we continue to address these requirements or focus on meeting new or expanded ones, we may expend a substantial amount of time and resources, even though our banking/finance business does not constitute our dominant business sector. Any inability to meet these requirements, within the timeframes set by regulators, may subject us to sanctions or other restrictions by the regulators that could impact our broader business. Moreover, being subject to banking regulation may put us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors which are not subject to such requirements.    51    Regulatory and legislative actions and reforms have made the regulatory environment in which we operate more costly and future actions and reforms could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and future financial results. Since 2001, the federal securities laws have been augmented substantially and made significantly more complex by, among other measures, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the USA Patriot Act of 2001 and the Reform Act. Moreover, the adoption of new laws or regulations and changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations have directly affected, and may continue to affect, our business. With new laws and changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing requirements, the associated time we must dedicate to, and related costs we must incur in, meeting the regulatory complexities of our business have increased. In particular, many provisions of the Reform Act require the adoption of rules to implement the Reform Act and mandate multiple studies, which could result in additional legislative or regulatory action. We may be required to invest significant management time and resources to address the various provisions of the Reform Act and the numerous regulations that are required to be issued under it. In addition, the SEC has proposed changes to Rule 12b-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could affect our ability to recover expenses relating to the distribution of our funds. Outlays associated with meeting regulatory complexities have also increased as we expand our business into new jurisdictions. Compliance activities to meet these and other new legal requirements have required us to expend additional time and resources, and, consequently, we are incurring increased costs of doing business, which potentially negatively impacts our profitability and future financial results. Moreover, any potential accounting or reporting error, whether financial or otherwise, if material, could damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. Finally, any regulatory and legislative actions and reforms affecting the mutual fund industry, including compliance initiatives, may negatively impact revenues by increasing our costs of accessing or dealing in the financial markets or by making certain investment offerings less favorable to our customers.  Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions and are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, such as recent proposals by the Obama administration, if enacted, could increase the amount of taxes we are required to pay and have a significant adverse impact on our future results of operations and profitability.  We depend on key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. The success of our business will continue to depend upon our key personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, investment advisers, sales and management personnel and other professionals as well as our executive officers and business unit heads. Competition for qualified, motivated, and highly skilled executives, professionals and other key personnel in the asset management and banking/finance industries remains significant. Our success depends to a substantial degree upon our ability to attract, retain, and motivate qualified individuals, including through competitive compensation packages, and upon the continued contributions of these people. Regulations required to be adopted under the Reform Act as well as regulations under consideration outside the Reform Act, could impose restrictions on compensation paid by financial institutions, which could restrict our ability to compete effectively for qualified professionals. As our business grows, we are likely to need to increase correspondingly the overall number of individuals that we employ. Moreover, in order to retain certain key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation to such individuals, resulting in additional expense without a corresponding increase in potential revenue. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified individuals, and the departure of key investment personnel, in particular, if not replaced, could cause us to lose clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects.    52    Our increasing focus on international markets as a source of investments and sales of investment products subjects us to increased exchange rate and other risks in connection with earnings and income generated overseas. While we operate primarily in the United States, we also provide services and earn revenues in The Bahamas, Asia, Canada, Europe, Latin America, Africa, and Australia. As a result, we are subject to foreign exchange risk through our non-U.S. operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rates to the U.S. dollar may affect our financial results from one period to the next. While we have taken steps to reduce our exposure to foreign exchange risk, for example, by denominating a significant amount of our transactions in U.S. dollars, the situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the United States. Appreciation of the U.S. dollar could moderate revenues from managing investment products internationally or could affect relative investment performance of certain funds invested in non-U.S. securities. In addition, we have risk associated with the foreign exchange revaluation of U.S. dollar balances held by certain non-U.S. subsidiaries for which the local currency is the functional currency. Separately, management fees that we earn tend to be higher in connection with international assets under management than with U.S. assets under management. Consequently, a downturn in international markets could have a significant effect on our revenues and income. Moreover, as our business grows in non-U.S. markets, any business, economic, social or political unrest affecting these markets, in addition to any direct consequences such unrest may have on our personnel and facilities located in the affected area, may also have a more lasting impact on the long-term investment climate in these and other areas and, as a result, our assets under management and the corresponding revenues and income that we generate from them may be negatively affected.  Our business could be negatively affected if we or our banking subsidiaries fail to remain well capitalized, and liquidity needs could affect our banking business. Our bank and thrift subsidiaries are subject to significant regulation and supervision, which includes minimum regulatory capital standards. Franklin is also subject to minimum regulatory capital standards because it is a bank holding company and financial holding company registered with the FRB under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. Franklin and its bank and thrift subsidiaries are currently well capitalized under applicable guidelines. However, our business could be negatively affected if Franklin or its bank or thrift subsidiaries failed to remain well capitalized. For example, because our bank and thrift subsidiaries are well capitalized and we otherwise qualify as a financial holding company, we are permitted to engage in a broader range of activities than are permitted to a bank holding company. Loss of financial holding company status would require that we either cease these broader activities or divest our bank subsidiaries if we desire to continue such activities. The banking regulators are authorized (and sometimes required) to impose a wide range of requirements, conditions, and restrictions on banks, thrifts, and bank holding companies that fail to maintain adequate capital levels. The Reform Act imposes more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements on bank holding companies which will apply to our business. In addition, liquidity needs could affect our banking business, which may be subject to an unanticipated large number of withdrawals as a result of a number of factors, such as changed or unstable economic conditions, adverse trends or events, business closings and lay-offs, rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, and returns available to clients on alternative investments. Our banking subsidiaries may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity, such as the sale of investment securities, FHLB and federal funds lines to enable them to meet such withdrawal demands. These secondary sources may not be sufficient to meet liquidity needs.  In addition, the following risk factor has been deleted:  Our ability to maintain the beneficial tax treatment we anticipate with respect to non-U.S. earnings we have repatriated is based on current interpretations of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the “Jobs Act”) and permitted use of such amounts in accordance with our domestic reinvestment plan and the Jobs Act.    53    Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.