Item 1A. Risk Factors.Our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 filed with the SEC includes a detailed discussion of the Risk Factors applicable to us, which are also set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” in Item 2 of Part I of this Form 10-Q, as updated since the filing of our Form 10-K to reflect certain material changes as set forth below in bold. Other than as set forth below in bold, there are no material changes from the Risk Factors as previously disclosed in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011:The amount and mix of our AUM are subject to significant fluctuations. Fluctuations in the amount and mix of our AUM may be attributable in part to market conditions outside of our control that have had, and in the future could have, a negative impact on our revenues and income. We derive substantially all of our operating revenues and net income from providing investment management and related services. The level of our revenues depends largely on the level and mix of AUM. Any decrease in the value or amount of our AUM because of market volatility or other factors negatively impacts our revenues and income. We are subject to an increased risk of asset volatility from changes in the global financial and equity markets. Individual financial and equity markets may be adversely affected by economic, political, financial or other instabilities that are particular to the country or regions in which a market is located, including without limitation local acts of terrorism, economic crises, political protests, insurrection or other business, social or political crises. Declines in these markets have caused in the past, and may cause in the future, a decline in our revenues and income. Global economic conditions, exacerbated by war, terrorism or financial crises, changes in the equity marketplace, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve, defaults by derivative counterparties, bond default risks, the sovereign debt crisis in Europe and other factors that are difficult to predict affect the mix, market values and levels of our AUM. The funds we manage may be subject to an unanticipated large number of redemptions as a result of such events, causing the funds to sell securities they hold, possibly at a loss, or draw on any available lines of credit to obtain cash to settle these redemptions, or settle in-kind with securities held in the applicable fund. The Company, in its discretion, may also provide financial support to a fund to enable it to maintain sufficient liquidity in such event. Our investment management services revenues are derived primarily from fees based on a percentage of the value of AUM and vary with the nature of the account or product managed. A decline in the price of stocks or bonds, or in particular market segments, or in the securities market generally, could cause the value and returns on our AUM to decline, resulting in a decline in our revenues and income. Moreover, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and U.S. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenues and income depending upon the nature of our AUM and the level of management fees we earn based on them. We generally derive higher investment management and distribution fees from our international products than from our U.S. products, and higher sales fees from our U.S. products than from our international products. Additionally, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix towards fixed-income products and a related decline in our revenues and income, as we generally derive higher fee revenues and income from equity products than from fixed-income products we manage. On the other hand, increases in interest rates, in particular if rapid, or high interest rates, as well as any uncertainty in the future direction of interest rates, may have a negative impact on our fixed-income products as rising interest rates or interest rate uncertainty typically decrease the total return on many bond investments due to lower market valuations of existing bonds. Any decrease in the level of our AUM resulting from price declines, interest rate volatility or uncertainty, increased redemptions or other factors could negatively impact our revenues and income. We are subject to extensive and complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations. The Reform Act enacted in 2010, as well as other legislative and regulatory changes, imposes additional restrictions and limitations on us and will likely result in increased scrutiny and oversight of our financial services and products as the various rules and regulations required for implementation continue to be adopted. Due to the complexity and broad scope of the Reform Act and time required for regulatory implementation, we are not able to predict at this time all of the specific requirements that will be adopted by regulatory agencies having authority over us pursuant to the Reform Act, or the impact of all of the changes in regulation. The so-called “Volcker Rule” provisions of the Reform Act restrict the ability of affiliates of insured depository institutions, such as Franklin, to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds or to engage in certain types of proprietary trading. While the Volcker Rule becomes effective July 21, 2012, final rules for its implementation have not yet been finalized. On April 19, 2012, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “FRB”) issued a Statement of Policy that confirmed that banking institutions will have two years from the effective date to conform their activities to the requirements of the Volcker Rule. New rules adopted by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) pursuant to the Reform Act will impose additional registration and reporting requirements for certain mutual funds that use or trade in futures, swaps and other derivatives, which may require us to change certain of our mutual fund business 50practices or register additional entities with the CFTC. Further, FATCA, which is intended to address tax compliance issues related to U.S. taxpayers holding non-U.S. accounts, requires non-U.S. financial institutions to report to the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) information about financial accounts held by U.S. taxpayers and imposes withholding, documentation and reporting requirements on non-U.S. financial institutions. FATCA remains subject to the adoption of applicable regulations by the IRS, with implementation beginning in 2013. We expect that FATCA will cause us to incur significant administrative and compliance costs. Changes to the regulation of money market funds currently under discussion would, if adopted, significantly change the structure and operations of those funds. On March 5, 2012, Fiduciary Trust submitted an application to the OCC to convert from a New York state-chartered bank to an uninsured national banking association with fiduciary powers, the activities of which would be limited to those authorized by the OCC for a trust bank and activities related thereto. Franklin Templeton Bank & Trust, F.S.B. would be merged into this entity. If this application is approved and certain related transactions are consummated, our status as a bank holding company would end. There is no assurance that the proposed conversion and related activities will be approved or completed. Even if the transactions are completed, we could still be subject to enhanced prudential standards if the Financial Stability Oversight Council were to designate us as a systemically important non-bank financial company under the Reform Act.Our ability to successfully integrate widely varied business lines can be impeded by systems and other technological limitations. Our continued success in effectively managing and growing our business depends on our ability to integrate the varied accounting, financial, information, and operational systems of our various businesses on a global basis. Moreover, adapting or developing our existing technology systems to meet our internal needs, as well as client needs, industry demands and new regulatory requirements, is also critical for our business. The constant introduction of new technologies presents new challenges to us. We have an ongoing need to continually upgrade and improve our various technology systems, including our data processing, financial, accounting, shareholder servicing and trading systems. Further, we also must be proactive and prepared to implement technology systems when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. These needs could present operational issues or require, from time to time, significant capital spending. It also may require us to reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of our technology systems, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.