Item 1A. Risk Factors.Our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 filed with the SEC includes a discussion of the risk factors identified by us, which are also set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” in Item 2 of Part I of this Form 10-Q. The risk factors copied below have been revised since the filing of our Form 10-K to reflect certain regulatory changes and the removal of certain banking related disclosure that we believe is no longer applicable.We are subject to extensive, complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations. There is uncertainty associated with the regulatory environment in which we operate. Our business is subject to extensive and complex, overlapping and/or conflicting, and frequently changing rules, regulations, policies and legal interpretations in the countries in which we operate, including those with respect to securities and other financial instruments, advisory, accounting, tax, compensation, ethics, data protection, privacy and escheatment laws and regulations. We are subject to U.S. federal securities laws, state laws regarding securities fraud, other federal and state laws and rules and regulations of certain regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, including those rules and regulations promulgated by, among others, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the New York Stock Exchange. We are also subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and the National Futures Association. Because of our non-U.S. operations and/or trading in our sponsored investment products (“SIPs”) that take place outside the U.S., we are also subject to regulation by non-U.S. regulators and U.S. regulators such as the Department of Justice and the SEC with respect to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977. We are also subject to the laws and regulations of states and other jurisdictions regarding the reporting and escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned property. Certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and many of our funds are registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act, both of which impose numerous obligations, as well as detailed operational requirements, on our subsidiaries that are investment advisers to registered investment companies. Our subsidiaries must comply with myriad complex and changing U.S. and/or non-U.S. rules and regulations, some of which may conflict, as well as complex tax regimes. Additionally, as we continue to expand our operations, sometimes rapidly, into additional non-U.S. jurisdictions, the rules and regulations of these non-U.S. jurisdictions become applicable, sometimes with short compliance deadlines, and add further regulatory complexity to our ongoing global compliance operations.Financial reporting requirements, and the processes, controls and procedures that have been put in place to address them, are often comprehensive and complex. We may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations. While management has focused attention and resources on our compliance policies, procedures and practices, non-compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations, conflicts of interest requirements or fiduciary principles, or our inability to keep up with, or adapt to, an ever changing, complex regulatory environment, could result in civil liability, criminal liability and/or sanctions against us, including fines and censures, injunctive relief, suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses or charters, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues and income.Our subsidiaries Fiduciary Trust Company International (“Fiduciary Trust”) and Franklin Templeton Bank & Trust, F.S.B. (“FTB&T”) have limited their operations to trust and fiduciary activities permitted under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the “BHC Act”) and the Home Owners’ Loan Act (“HOLA”) for trust-only companies. Franklin therefore believes it is no longer a bank holding company for purposes of the BHC Act and would not be a savings and loan holding company for purposes of HOLA, and has submitted a letter to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“FRB”) to that effect. After Franklin has deregistered as a bank holding company, Fiduciary Trust and FTB&T will continue to be subject to regulation, supervision and examination by their respective regulators, which include the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for both, the New York State Department of Financial Services for Fiduciary Trust, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency for FTB&T.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) authorized the establishment of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”), the mandate of which is to identify and respond to threats to U.S. financial stability. The FSOC may designate non-bank financial companies as systemically important financial institutions (“SIFIs”), which are subject to supervision and regulation by the FRB. The FSOC, as well as other global regulators, are considering what threats to global financial stability, if any, arise from asset management companies and/or the funds that they manage, and whether such threats can be mitigated by treating such entities as SIFIs and subjecting them to additional regulation. To the extent that we or our funds are subject to such a SIFI designation, such regulation, which could include requirements related to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, credit exposure, stress testing, resolution plans, early remediation, and certain risk management  49Table of Contentsrequirements, could impact our business. The Dodd-Frank Act, as well as other legislative and regulatory changes, impose other restrictions and limitations on us, resulting in increased scrutiny and oversight of our financial services and products. We continue to analyze the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act as implementing rules are adopted and become effective. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, which imposes a number of new regulations governing derivative transactions, certain categories of swaps are currently required, and further categories of swaps are likely to be required, to be submitted for clearing by a regulated clearing organization and reported on a swap execution facility, and the posting of collateral will be required for uncleared swaps. These and other requirements are likely to impact how we manage our investment strategies because of, among other things, an increase in the costs and expenses of utilizing swaps and other derivatives. In addition to the rulemaking mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, rules adopted by the CFTC in 2012 removed or limited previously available exemptions and exclusions from registration and regulation as a commodity pool operator and commodity trading advisor on which we had relied, resulting in the imposition of either additional registration, disclosure, reporting and recordkeeping requirements or more stringent requirements to comply with the remaining exemptions or exclusions for operators of certain of our registered mutual funds and other pooled vehicles that use or trade in futures, swaps and other derivatives considered commodity interests and subject to regulation by the CFTC. Further, the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (“FATCA”), which is intended to address tax compliance issues related to U.S. taxpayers holding non-U.S. accounts, will impose customer due diligence, reporting and withholding requirements on certain non-U.S. financial institutions. Full implementation of FATCA will be phased in over the next several years. Also, the SEC has developed proposals for stricter regulation of money market funds that could significantly change the structure and operations of those funds. We expect that such regulatory requirements and developments will cause us to incur additional administrative and compliance costs.The laws and regulations applicable to our business generally involve restrictions and requirements in connection with a variety of technical, specialized, and expanding matters and concerns. For example, compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, anti-money laundering and Know-Your-Customer requirements, and economic and trade sanctions, both domestically and internationally, has taken on heightened importance as a result of efforts to, among other things, limit terrorism and actions that undermine the stability, sovereignty and territorial integrity of countries. At the same time, there has been increased regulation with respect to the protection of customer privacy and the need to secure sensitive customer information. As we continue to address these requirements or focus on meeting new or expanded ones, we may expend a substantial amount of time and resources. Any inability to meet these requirements, within the required timeframes, may subject us to sanctions or other restrictions by governments and/or regulators that could adversely impact our broader business objectives. Changes in the third-party distribution and sales channels on which we depend could reduce our income and hinder our growth. We derive nearly all of our fund sales through third-party broker/dealers, banks, investment advisers and other financial intermediaries. Increasing competition for these distribution channels and regulatory initiatives have caused our distribution costs to rise and could cause further increases in the future or could otherwise negatively impact the distribution of our products. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC may establish different standards for broker/dealers in their interaction with retail customers, which could have an impact on sales and/or distribution costs. Higher distribution costs lower our income; consolidations in the broker/dealer industry could also adversely impact our income. Moreover, if several of the major financial advisers who distribute our products were to cease operations or limit or otherwise end the distribution of our products, it could have a significant adverse impact on our income. In addition, the U.K., the Netherlands and recently the EU in its Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II have adopted regimes which ban, or may limit, the payment of commissions to intermediaries in relation to certain sales to retail customers and similar regimes are under consideration in several other markets. Depending on their exact terms, such regimes may result in existing flows of business moving to less profitable channels or even to competitors providing substitutable products outside the regime. There is no assurance we will continue to have access to the third-party broker/dealers, banks, investment advisers and other financial intermediaries that currently distribute our products, or continue to have the opportunity to offer all or some of our existing products through them. A failure to maintain strong business relationships with such distributors may also impair our distribution and sales operations. Because we use broker/dealers, banks, investment advisers and other financial intermediaries to sell our products, we do not control the ultimate investment recommendations given to clients. Any inability to access and successfully sell our products to clients through third-party distribution channels could have a negative effect on our level of AUM, income and overall business and financial condition.In addition, the risk factor with the following heading has been deleted:Our business could be negatively affected if we or our banking subsidiaries fail to satisfy regulatory and supervisory standards. 50Table of ContentsItem 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.