Item 1A. Risk Factors  On June 17, 2009, we repurchased all of the preferred stock we issued and sold to the U.S. Department of the Treasury (“U.S. Treasury”) under the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) under the Troubled Asset Relief Program. The U.S. Treasury continues to hold a ten-year warrant (the “Warrant”) to purchase shares of our common stock that also was issued and sold under the CPP. Although we have delivered a notice to the U.S. Treasury of our intent to repurchase the Warrant, the timing and terms of any potential repurchase or other disposition of the Warrant are not certain. So long as the U.S. Treasury holds the Warrant we expect to be subject to limitations on the federal tax deductibility of certain executive compensation payments.  In light of these actions, risk factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 arising specifically from our participation in the CPP no longer apply to the Corporation. In addition, the risk factor relating to compliance with evolving regulations is revised to read as follows:  Compliance with evolving regulations applicable to banks and other financial services companies may impact us in ways that are difficult to predict. Although our repurchase of the preferred stock we issued and sold to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP eliminated restrictions placed upon us under the agreements relating to our participation in that program, in light of current economic conditions, banks and other financial services companies such as us will continue to be subject to enhanced regulatory and enforcement scrutiny and evolving legislation and regulations in the U.S. and other countries. The full scope and impact of existing regulations and of new legislation and implementing regulations that may be issued in the future is uncertain and difficult to     60      Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued)     predict. These new and evolving legal and regulatory requirements may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry and its participants. They may require significant time, effort, and resources on our part to ensure compliance, and may impose limitations on us that affect our ability to compete successfully and impact our financial results.    61      Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds