Item 1A. Risk Factors  Except as set forth below, there are no material changes to the risk factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A in the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.  Changes in laws and regulation could result in reduced earnings. Laws, regulations, and their interpretation by regulatory agencies may change or generate enhanced scrutiny of particular activities. Those changes or enhanced emphasis can impose costs or otherwise affect our ability to compete successfully. The disruption in financial markets may produce regulatory changes in the U.S. and elsewhere, the effects of which are difficult to predict. For example, the U.S. Congress recently passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which may, among other things, affect our leverage limits and risk-based capital and liquidity requirements, require us to pay higher assessments, and restrict or increase the regulation of certain of our business activities. We cannot determine the ultimate effect that potential legislation, or subsequent implementing regulations, if enacted, would have upon our earnings and financial position.  Compliance with evolving regulations applicable to banks and other financial services companies may impact us in ways that are difficult to predict. Although our repurchase of the preferred stock and warrant we issued and sold to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP eliminated restrictions placed upon us under the agreements relating to our participation in that program, in light of current economic conditions, banks and other financial services companies such as us will continue to be subject to enhanced regulatory and enforcement scrutiny and evolving legislation and regulations in the U.S. and other countries. Evolving regulations, such as the Basel II capital regime and liquidity related regulations, regulations that may be promulgated pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act and other regulations that generate increased scrutiny of particular activities, such as anti-money laundering procedures and certain financial services and products, require significant time, effort, and resources on our part to ensure compliance in a rapidly changing environment. We often must meet significant milestones in complying with these regulatory requirements. Failure to meet these requirements and milestones could significantly and negatively affect our business. In addition, our required regulatory capital may be affected by these or other regulatory or legislative initiatives, such as Basel II and regulations that may be promulgated pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, potentially resulting in changes to the cost and composition of our regulatory capital. The full scope and impact of possible enhanced regulatory and enforcement scrutiny and evolving legislation and regulation is uncertain and difficult to predict.    62      Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds