Item 1A. Risk Factors  Except as set forth below, there are no material changes to the risk factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A in the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.    74      Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued)  Changes in regulatory capital requirements, and the application of those capital requirements to our business activities, could materially change the calculation of our risk-weighted assets, the capital required to operate our businesses, and our capital ratios over time. The Dodd-Frank Act, and the implementation of the Basel II and Basel III capital standards, could lead to higher capital requirements, higher capital charges and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios. We use the “advanced measurement approach” to calculate capital under Basel II and Basel III, and that requires us to calculate our credit, market and operational risk exposures using current and historical data, including our own loss data as well as industry data. These calculations are largely quantitative, but they involve various assumptions and judgments as to credit and operational loss data, volatility measures, correlations and statistical models, that may vary from our actual experience. Our calculations are subject to periodic update and revalidation depending upon changes in our business activities, our actual experiences, market forces and events, regulatory rules and interpretations, and other factors. These changes could impact, and lead to greater volatility in, our Basel II and Basel III Advanced capital ratios that could be material over time.  In addition, the risk factor relating to attracting and retaining personnel is revised as follows:  Failure to attract and retain skilled people could negatively affect our prospects. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key talent. Competition for the best people in most of our activities can be intense and we may not be able to hire and retain key personnel, including as a result of any restrictions on our compensation practices that may be imposed by governments or regulators. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. In addition, significant aspects of our compensation programs are performance-based. If we do not achieve applicable performance thresholds for a relevant period, employee compensation may be adversely affected, which could negatively affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel.    75      Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds