Item 1A. Risk Factors  Except as set forth below, there are no material changes to the risk factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A in the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, as modified by Item 1A in the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013:  Breaches of our security measures can result in losses.  We rely heavily on information technology to conduct our business and any failure, interruption or breach in the security of our systems could severely disrupt our operations. Our security measures may be breached due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our clients’ proprietary information or our own proprietary information. Third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints.  Information security risks for large financial institutions like us have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties, including foreign state actors. Northern Trust and several other financial institutions have been the target of cyberattacks including denial-of-service attacks intended to disrupt our online presence. These incidents have not had a material impact on Northern Trust to date. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Our systems involve the use of clients’ and Northern Trust’s proprietary information and a successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our systems could cause serious negative consequences, including significant disruption of our operations, misappropriation of confidential information of Northern Trust or that of its clients, or damage to computers or systems of Northern Trust and those of our clients and counterparties, and could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to us or our clients, loss of confidence in our security measures, client dissatisfaction, significant litigation exposure, and harm to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on us.    82      Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds