Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur risk factors have not changed materially since they were described in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed February 23, 2018, other than as discussed below.We may not be able to successfully or timely complete the Transaction.On October 11, 2018, we entered into an agreement (the “SPA”) with Münchener Rückversicherungs Gesellschaft AG (“Munich Re”) for the sale and purchase of the entire issued share capital of MSP Underwriting Limited (“MSP”), pursuant to which we agreed to purchase, and Munich Re agreed to sell, all of the issued and outstanding share capital of MSP and its subsidiaries, which includes the Lloyds' managing agent, Beaufort Underwriting Agency Limited for Lloyd's syndicate 318 (the “Transaction”).The Transaction may not be completed, or may not be completed in the time frame, on the terms or in the manner currently anticipated. The completion of the Transaction is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of customary closing conditions, such as receipt of certain regulatory approvals. There can be no assurance that the conditions to closing of the Transaction will be satisfied or waived or that other events will not intervene to delay or result in the failure to close the Transaction. In addition, the SPA may be terminated prior to closing if certain closing conditions are not satisfied, including receipt of the previously referenced regulatory approvals, on or prior to April 11, 2019.While we believe that we will receive all required approvals for the Transaction, there can be no assurance as to the receipt or timing of receipt of these approvals. A substantial delay in obtaining any required authorizations, approvals or consents, or the imposition of unfavorable terms, conditions or restrictions contained in such authorizations, approvals or consents, could prevent the completion of the Transaction or have an adverse effect on the anticipated benefits of the Transaction.The anticipated benefits of the Transaction may not be realized. If the Transaction is completed, the Company can provide no assurance that the anticipated benefits of the Transaction will be fully realized in the time frame anticipated or at all, or that the costs or difficulties related to the integration of MSP’s operations into the Company’s will not be greater than expected. The success of the Transaction will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities and growth prospects from acquiring MSP. We may never realize these business opportunities and growth prospects. Integrating MSP will require significant efforts and expenditures. Our management might have its attention diverted while trying to integrate operations and corporate and administrative infrastructures and the cost of integration may exceed our expectations. MSP’s international operations will subject the Company to additional regulation and could expose the Company to additional investment, political and economic risks.Following the completion of the Transaction, the Company will have international operations that could expose the Company to a number of additional risks. These risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, currency exchange limits, ownership limits and other restrictive or anti-competitive governmental actions or requirements, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and reputation. The Company’s business activities outside the United States could also be subject to political and economic risks, including foreign currency and credit risk.Additionally, following the closing of the Transaction, the Company’s business activities outside the United States will subject the Company to additional domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and similar laws in other countries that prohibit the making of improper payments Cincinnati Financial Corporation Third-Quarter 2018 10-QPage  72to foreign officials. In addition, insurers in the United Kingdom (“UK”) (including managing agents and members of Lloyd’s of London) are subject to Solvency II and the UK regulatory regime, which itself includes rules promulgated by Lloyd's of London. Although the Company has policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulatory requirements, if those controls are ineffective and an employee or intermediary fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, the Company could suffer civil and criminal penalties and the Company’s business and reputation could be adversely affected. Some countries have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of, and potential liability under, the local laws. Failure to comply with local laws in a particular market may result in substantial liability and could have a significant and negative effect not only on the Company’s business in that market but also on the Company’s reputation generally. Recent developments relating to the United Kingdom’s referendum vote in favor of leaving the European Union could adversely affect MSP’s operations following the closing of the Transaction.The UK held a referendum on June 23, 2016 in which a majority of voters voted for the UK’s withdrawal from the European Union (“Brexit”). Because of this vote, the terms of the UK’s withdrawal from the European Union and the relationship between the UK and European Union going forward is currently being negotiated, including the terms of trade between the UK and the European Union. The ultimate impact of Brexit is uncertain and will depend on any agreements that the UK makes to retain access to European Union markets. Brexit could also lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the UK determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate. These or other adverse consequences from Brexit could adversely affect the operations and business opportunities of MSP, following the closing of the Transaction.With a view to mitigating the potential effects of Brexit on business underwritten through Lloyd’s, as has been publicly announced, Lloyd’s has set up an insurance company subsidiary in Belgium, with the intention of underwriting European Economic Area insurance business via that subsidiary (where required) from January 1, 2019. It is not possible at this stage to determine how effective such proposed Brexit contingency plan will be.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds