ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  Discussed below are certain factors that may adversely affect our business, financial position, or results of operations. Any one or more of the following factors may cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” contained herein on page 1.  Regulation  Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation. The regulations may affect the cost or demand for our products and may hinder us from taking desired actions to increase our profitability. Our insurance company subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations, or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. In addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could result in fines and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.  Congress, as well as foreign, state, and local governments, could enact legislation related to changes in tax laws that could increase our tax costs or affect the desirability of our products by consumers.  ERISA was passed by Congress in 1974. One of the purposes of ERISA was to reserve for federal authority the sole power to regulate the field of employee benefits. ERISA was intended to eliminate the threat of conflicting or inconsistent state and local regulation of employee benefit plans, and thus ERISA pre-empts all state laws except those that specifically regulate the business of insurance. ERISA also provides an exclusive remedial scheme for any action brought by ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries. ERISA has allowed plan administrators and plan fiduciaries to efficiently manage employee benefit plans in the United States. Most group long-term and short-term disability plans administered by the Company are governed by ERISA. Changes to ERISA enacted by Congress or via judicial interpretations could adversely affect the risk of managing employee benefit plans, increase the premiums associated with such plans, and ultimately affect their affordability.  Unum Limited is subject to regulation by the FSA in the U.K. The FSA has broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict Unum Limited from doing business in the event that it fails to comply with U.K. laws and regulations.  Many regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees. These regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices are improper. These actions can result in substantial fines or restrictions on our business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.  During 2002 and 2003, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries experienced increased market conduct examinations focused specifically on our disability claims handling policies and practices. These examinations by state insurance departments have generally involved a review of complaints from policyholders or insureds on a range of subjects and a review of disability claim files and associated materials from group long-term and individual disability product lines. Because of the number of market conduct examinations initiated during 2002 and 2003, a coordinated multistate market conduct examination of our disability claims handling practices was organized during 2003 by Maine, Massachusetts, and Tennessee, the states of domicile for several of our insurance subsidiaries. In November 2004, we entered into settlement agreements with state insurance regulators upon conclusion of the multistate market conduct examination. A total of 48 states and the District of Columbia were parties to the settlement agreements. In addition, the DOL, which had been conducting an inquiry relating to certain ERISA plans, was a party to the settlement agreements, and the NYAG, which had engaged in its own investigation of our claims handling practices, notified us that it was in support of the settlement and was, therefore, closing its investigation on this issue. In October 2005, we entered into a settlement agreement with the California Department of Insurance (DOI), concluding a market conduct examination and investigation of the subsidiaries’ disability claims handling practices.    18    Table of Contents The California DOI had chosen not to join the 2004 multistate settlement agreements. See previous discussion under “Regulation – Examinations and Investigations” contained herein in Item 1, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained herein in Item 7, and Note 15 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” contained herein in Item 8 for additional information concerning these settlement agreements and other regulatory examinations and investigations.  The 2004 multistate regulatory settlement agreements and the 2005 California DOI settlement agreement resulted in changes in our claims handling practices and a process for reassessing certain claims. These and other regulatory examinations or investigations could result in, among other things, changes in business practices, including changes in broker compensation and related disclosure practices, changes in the use and oversight of reinsurance, changes in governance and other oversight procedures, fines, and other administrative action. Such results, singly or in combination, could injure our reputation, cause negative publicity, adversely affect our issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products, or impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, thereby adversely affecting our business, and potentially materially adversely affecting the results of operations in a period, depending on the results of operations for the particular period. Determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct could also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits.  Reserves  Reserves, whether calculated under GAAP or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead estimates made by us using actuarial and statistical procedures. There can be no assurance that any such reserves will be sufficient to fund our future liabilities in all circumstances. Future loss development could require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings in current and future periods. Adjustments to reserve amounts may be required in the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (the incidence of claims and the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of inflation and other societal and economic factors), persistency, mortality, and interest rates used in calculating the reserve amounts. See “Critical Accounting Estimates” included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained herein in Item 7 for further discussion.  Issuer Credit Ratings and Financial Strength Ratings  We compete based in part on the financial strength ratings provided by rating agencies. The downgrade of our financial strength ratings could adversely affect us and could potentially, among other things, adversely affect relationships with distributors of our products and services and retention of our sales force, negatively impact persistency and new sales, and generally adversely affect our ability to compete. A downgrade in the issuer credit rating assigned to Unum Group or a negative outlook statement by a rating agency could have an effect on our ability to raise capital and on our cost of capital.  See “Ratings” contained herein in Item 1 and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained herein in Item 7 for further discussion of our ratings from these agencies.  Litigation  The Company and/or its subsidiaries’ directors and officers have been sued in over 20 purported class action and stockholder derivative lawsuits. These lawsuits are in a very preliminary stage, the outcome is uncertain, and we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible losses. Reserves have not been established for these matters. An adverse outcome in one or more of these actions could, depending on the nature, scope and amount of the ruling, materially adversely affect our results of operations, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings.    19    Table of Contents In addition to the claim related litigation described above, the Company and its insurance subsidiaries, as part of their normal operations in managing claims, are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits. Typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. For our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. We expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our consolidated financial position. Nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a period, depending on our results of operations for the particular period. We are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses.  Refer to Note 15 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” contained herein in Item 8 for additional information on certain of the above legal proceedings.  Deferred Acquisition Costs, Value of Business Acquired, and Goodwill  We defer certain costs incurred in acquiring new business and expense these costs over the life of the related policies. These costs include certain commissions, other agency compensation, selection and policy issue expenses, and field expenses. Value of business acquired (VOBA) represents the present value of future profits recorded in connection with the acquisition of a block of insurance policies. Deferred acquisition costs and VOBA are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies. Recoverability testing for deferred acquisition costs and VOBA is performed when, in our judgment, adverse deviations from original assumptions have occurred and may be likely to continue such that recoverability of deferred acquisition costs and/or VOBA on a line of business is questionable. Insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts. If recoverability testing indicates that either deferred acquisition costs and/or VOBA are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense.  Goodwill is not amortized, but we review on an annual basis the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, with consideration given to financial performance and other relevant factors. In accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below. In addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually.  Industry Factors  All of our businesses are highly regulated and competitive. Our profitability is affected by a number of factors, including rate competition, frequency and severity of claims, lapse rates, government regulation, interest rates, and general business considerations. There are many insurance companies which actively compete with us in our lines of business, some of which are larger and have greater financial resources, and there is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against such companies in the future. See “Competition” contained herein in Item 1 for additional information on the competition we face.  Capital Adequacy  The capacity for an insurance company’s growth in premiums is in part a function of its statutory surplus. Maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus, as measured by state insurance regulations, is considered important by state insurance regulatory authorities and the rating agencies that rate insurers’ claims-paying abilities and financial strength. Failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by state regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies.  The individual RBC ratios for our U.S. insurance subsidiaries at December 31, 2007, were above the range that would require state regulatory action. If the NAIC or state regulators adopt revisions to the RBC formula, our insurance subsidiaries may require additional capital. The additional capital required may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, insurance companies in the U.K. are subject to regulation, including capital     20    Table of Contents  adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, by the FSA. Need for additional capital could limit a subsidiary’s ability to distribute funds to the holding company and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and meet our debt and other payment obligations.  Disability Insurance  Disability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. Changes in societal attitudes, work ethics, motivation, stability, and mores can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from disability products. The climate and the nature of competition in disability insurance have also been markedly affected by the growth of social security, workers’ compensation, and other governmental programs in the workplace.  Both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence for disability insurance. Claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence. The relationship between these and other factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims. Within the group disability market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates. However, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices. In addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time.  The pricing actions available in the individual disability market differ between product classes. Our individual noncancelable disability policies, whereby the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, do not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business due to changes resulting from such factors. Guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be re-priced to reflect external factors, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group disability market.  Disability insurance products are important products for us. To the extent that disability products are adversely affected in the future as to sales or claims, our business or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  Long-term Care Insurance  Long-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. Because long-term care insurance is a relatively new insurance product, the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to properly price the products and use appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves potentially has greater risk than that of other product offerings for which greater experience exists regarding trends and appropriate assumptions. Mortality is a critical factor influencing the length of time a claimant receives long-term care benefits. Mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy trends have extended. Changes in actual mortality trends relative to assumptions may adversely affect our profitability. Long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect external factors, but the re-pricing is subject to regulatory approval which can affect the length of time in which the re-pricing can be implemented.  Group Life Insurance   Group life insurance may be affected by many factors, including the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with lower claim incidence rates, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates. Claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks and natural disasters, which may also affect the availability of reinsurance coverage. Changes in any of these factors may adversely affect our profitability.    21    Table of Contents Epidemics, Pandemics, Terrorists Attacks, Natural Disasters, or Other Extreme Events  Extreme events, including terrorism, can affect the economy in general, our industry, and us specifically. Such events could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations, and in the event of extreme circumstances, our financial condition or viability. Beyond obtaining coverage for our facilities, there are few, if any, commercial options through which to transfer the exposure from terrorism away from us. In particular, in the event of bioterrorism attacks, epidemics, or other extreme events, we could face significant health care costs depending on the government’s actions and the responsiveness of public health agencies and other insurers. In addition, we could also be adversely affected if we do not maintain adequate procedures to ensure disaster recovery and business continuity for our facilities and operations in the event of such occurrences.  Investments  We maintain an investment portfolio that consists primarily of fixed income securities. The quality and/or yield of the portfolio may be affected by a number of factors, including the general economic and business environment, changes in the credit quality of the issuer, changes in market conditions, changes in interest rates, changes in foreign exchange rates, or regulatory changes. These securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer. Factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer’s industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer, accounting irregularities or fraud committed by the issuer, or a change in the issuer’s marketplace may adversely affect our ability to collect principal and interest from the issuer.  The investments we hold are predominantly invested to support the insurance liabilities of our subsidiaries. The timing and/or amount of the investment cash flows may not match those of the liabilities.  The investments held by our insurance subsidiaries are highly regulated by specific legislation in each state that governs the type, amount, and credit quality of allowable investments. Legislative changes could force us to restructure the portfolio in an unfavorable interest rate or credit environment, with a resulting adverse effect on profitability and the level of statutory capital.  We use derivative instruments to hedge interest rate risk and to manage duration match. Our profitability may be adversely affected if a counterparty to the derivative defaults in its payment. This default risk is mitigated by cross-collateralization agreements.  Dividend Restrictions  Unum Group and certain of its intermediate holding company subsidiaries and/or finance subsidiaries rely on dividends or extensions of credit from our insurance company subsidiaries, including our U.S. insurance subsidiaries and Unum Limited, to make dividend payments on our common stock, meet debt payment obligations, and pay our other obligations. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to affiliates. The level of statutory earnings and capital in our insurance subsidiaries could impact their ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to the holding company, which could impair our ability to pay our dividends or meet our debt and other payment obligations. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained herein in Item 7 and Note 16 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” contained herein in Item 8 for a discussion of the existing regulatory limitations on dividends.    22    Table of Contents  ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS