ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. Discussed below are certain factors that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Any one or more of the following factors may cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company, including those in this document or made by us elsewhere, such as in earnings release investor calls, investor conference presentations, or press releases. The risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. See "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" contained herein on page 1.Unfavorable economic conditions may result in lower premium growth, higher disability claims incidence, or longer claims duration and adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition.As a large financial institution, we are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the general economy, both in the United States, the United Kingdom, and to a lesser extent, the entire European Union and Asian financial markets. A challenging business environment and volatile markets persisted through 2011 and may continue in 2012. Adversity in the capital markets and the general economy may adversely affect our business and results of operations. In particular, factors such as unemployment levels, consumer confidence levels, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our businesses. Given the nature of our products, in an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower personal income, reduced consumer spending, and lower corporate earnings and investment, new product sales may be adversely affected. Our premium growth may also be negatively impacted by lower premium growth from existing customers due to lower salary growth and lower growth in the number of employees covered under an existing policy. In addition, during such periods we may experience higher disability claims incidence, longer disability claims duration, and/or an increase in policy lapses. We and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation, which may affect the cost or demand for our products, may increase capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, or may impact our profitability or growth. Our activities are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the United States and abroad. Regulators have the ability to take various steps to protect the businesses of the entities they regulate. For example, our insurance company subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations, or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. In addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us, restrict transactions between subsidiaries and/or between us and our subsidiaries, and may require contributions of capital by us to our insurance subsidiaries even if we are otherwise in compliance with stated requirements. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws or regulations could result in restrictions on our ability to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could result in fines and other sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.It is possible that there will be heightened oversight of insurers by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries are domiciled and operate. We cannot predict specific proposals that might be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. The NAIC or state regulators may adopt revisions to the RBC formula, the FSA may revise its capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, other jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, including the BMA, may increase their capital requirements, or rating agencies may incorporate higher capital thresholds into their quantitative analyses, thus requiring additional capital contributions by us to our insurance subsidiaries. Increased financial services regulation, such as the NAIC Solvency Modernization Initiative and the European Commission's Solvency II, may impose greater quantitative requirements, supervisory review, and disclosure requirements and may impact the business strategies, capital requirements, and profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. New programs, including healthcare reform and financial services sector reform, may compete with or diminish the need for our products, particularly as it may affect our ability to sell our products through employers or in the workplace.Congress, as well as foreign, state, and local governments, could enact legislation related to changes in tax laws or tax rates or could eliminate current tax deductions. Any of these events could increase our tax costs or affect the desirability of our products to customers. Legislative changes related to pension funding requirements could negatively impact our cash flows from operations and our profitability. 17Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process anticipated to continue over the next few years. We cannot predict with certainty the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted or how or whether Dodd-Frank and such regulations will affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition, require us to raise additional capital, or result in a downgrade of our credit ratings. Most group long-term and short-term disability plans we administer are governed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). Changes to ERISA enacted by Congress or through judicial interpretations may adversely affect the risk to us of managing employee benefit plans, increase the premiums associated with such plans, and ultimately affect their affordability and our profitability.The insurance departments in jurisdictions wherein our insurance subsidiaries conduct business may limit our ability to obtain rate increases under guaranteed renewable contracts and may require changes in rates and/or benefits to meet minimum loss ratio requirements which could negatively impact the profitability of our products. Many regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees. These regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices are improper. These actions can result in substantial fines or restrictions on our business activities and may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.Regulatory examinations or investigations could result in, among other things, changes in our claims handling practices, changes in business practices, including changes in broker compensation and related disclosure practices, changes in procedures for the identification and escheatment of abandoned property, changes in the use and oversight of reinsurance, increases to reserving requirements, changes in governance and other oversight procedures, fines, and other administrative action. Such results, singly or in combination, may injure our reputation, cause negative publicity, adversely affect our issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products, or impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, thereby adversely affecting our business, and potentially materially adversely affecting the results of operations. Determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct may also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits. See "Regulation" contained herein in Item 1 and Note 13 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion.Sustained periods of low interest rates in the long-term investment market may adversely affect our reported net investment income and our ability to purchase securities at rates of return assumed in the pricing and reserving for our insurance products, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. An interest, or discount, rate is used in calculating our policyholder reserves. We set our reserve discount rate assumptions based on our current and expected future investment yield for assets supporting the reserves, considering current and expected future market conditions. Continued low interest rates and yields on fixed income investments may cause the rates of return on our investment portfolio to decrease more than expected, leading to lower net investment income than assumed in the pricing and reserving for our insurance products. If the discount rate assumed in our reserve calculations is higher than our future investment returns, our invested assets will not earn enough investment income to support our future claim payments. In that case, the reserves may eventually be insufficient, resulting in the need to increase our reserves and/or increase our capital contributions to our insurance subsidiaries, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. See "Reserves for Policy and Contract Benefits" contained herein in Item 1 and "Critical Accounting Estimates" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 for further discussion.Changes in the risk results of our segments or lines of businesses may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.  In recent years, we have experienced volatility in risk results in various lines of business. Historical results may not be indicative of future performance due to, among other things, changes in our mix of business, re-pricing of certain lines of business, or any number of economic cyclical effects on our business. In addition, reserves, whether calculated under GAAP or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead estimates made by us using actuarial and statistical procedures. Actual claim experience may differ from our reserve assumptions. There can 18be no assurance that our reserves will be sufficient to fund our future liabilities in all circumstances. Future loss development may require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings in current and future periods. Life expectancies may continue to increase, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives disability or long-term care benefits and could result in a change in mortality assumptions and an increase in reserves for these and other long-tailed products. Adjustments to reserve amounts may also be required in the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (the incidence of claims and the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of inflation and other societal and economic factors); persistency; policy benefit offsets, including those for social security and other government-based welfare benefits; and interest rates used in calculating the reserve amounts. See "Reserves for Policy and Contract Benefits" contained herein in Item 1 and "Executive Summary" and "Critical Accounting Estimates" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 for further discussion. In addition to interest rate risk as previously discussed, we are exposed to other risks related to our investment portfolio which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. These risks include default risk, credit spread fluctuations, the accuracy of valuations of securities, and the possibility that we might need to sell securities at disadvantageous times.Default RiskInvestments are an integral part of our business, and our investments support our policyholder liabilities and shareholders' equity. Our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed maturity securities. These securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer. Factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer's industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer, unforeseen accounting irregularities or fraud committed by the issuer, widening risk spreads, ratings downgrades, a change in the issuer's marketplace or business prospects, or other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities may result in the issuer defaulting on its obligations. In the European Union, the sovereign debt crisis, concerns over bank exposure to sovereign debt, and questions about the stability and viability of the euro may result in an issuer defaulting on its obligations. Our investment portfolio also includes perpetual debentures, or "hybrid" securities. Interest on these securities due on any payment date may be deferred by the issuer. Because interest payments are deferrable and because these securities rank behind traditional debt obligations, events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities may have a greater adverse effect on these types of investments than on our traditional fixed maturity securities. Our mortgage loan portfolio has default risk. Events or developments, such as economic conditions that impact the ability of tenants to pay their rents or limit the availability of refinancing, may have a negative effect on our mortgage loan portfolio. Events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on an investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated in that region or sector. A default results in the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment loss on the investment. A default may also adversely affect our ability to collect principal and interest due to us. The probability of credit downgrades and defaults increases when the fixed income markets experience periods of volatility and illiquidity. Credit Spread RiskOur exposure to credit spreads, which is the yield above comparable Treasury securities, primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. A widening of credit spreads may increase the net unrealized loss position of the investment portfolio and may adversely impact liquidity. Credit spread tightening may reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed income securities. 19Valuation RiskWe report our fixed maturity securities and certain other financial instruments at market value. Valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, particularly during periods of market disruption, resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may ultimately be sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported in our financial statements, and the period to period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We evaluate our investment portfolio for impairments. There can be no assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of impairments taken. Additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, and historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. Any event reducing the value of our securities other than on a temporary basis may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Market Timing and Liquidity RiskWhile we attempt to match our asset cash flows and durations with expected liability cash flows and durations to meet the funding requirements of our business, we may in certain circumstances need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. Events such as these may force us to sell securities in an unfavorable interest rate or credit environment, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. See "Critical Accounting Estimates" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 and Notes 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion of our investments and derivatives. The effectiveness of our hedging programs may be affected by changes in the economic environment, ratings downgrades, capital market volatility, changes in interest rates, and regulation that may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.We use derivative instruments to help us manage interest rate risk. Risks to our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity include: •Our hedges may become ineffective due to changes in expected future events, including, but not limited to, risk created by uncertainty in the European economic environment or if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments. Ineffectiveness of our hedges may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.•If we are downgraded significantly, ratings triggers in our contracts may result in our counterparties enforcing their option to terminate the derivative contracts. Such an event may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our ability to hedge our risks.•Many of our counterparties are financial institutions, and capital market turmoil may result in an increase in the risk of non-performance by financial institutions. Non-performance by our counterparties may force us to unwind hedges. We may be unable to replace the hedge, thereby leaving the risk unhedged. •Under the terms of our hedging contracts, we are required to post collateral and to maintain a certain level of collateral. This may adversely affect our liquidity and could subject us to the credit risk of the counterparty to the extent it holds such collateral. •An increase in interest rates may result in losses at the time hedges are terminated, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.•Changes in regulations may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute effective hedges due to the increased economic cost of hedges. Competition may adversely affect our market share or profitability. All of our businesses are highly competitive. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are integrated product choices, price, quality of customer service and claims management, financial strength, and claims-paying ratings. We compete for new product sales, the retention of existing business, and the ability to attract and retain independent agents and brokers to market our products, all of which affect our profitability. The level and intensity of competition may grow due to existing competitors becoming more aggressive, new competitors entering the market, and an increase in merger and acquisition activity which may result in larger competitors with greater financial resources. There are many insurance 20companies which actively compete with us in our lines of business, and there is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against these companies and new competitors in the future. See "Competition" contained herein in Item 1 for further discussion.Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), the U.K. Accounting Standards Board (ASB), or other standard-setting bodies may materially affect our financial statements.Our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles in both the United States and the United Kingdom, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB and ASB. The FASB has several ongoing projects regarding accounting standards that will likely be adopted in the near future. Future accounting standards we adopt will change current accounting and disclosure requirements applicable to our financial statements. Such changes may have a material effect on our reported results of operations or financial condition. A decrease in our financial strength or issuer credit ratings may have an adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, or financial condition. We compete based in part on the financial strength ratings provided by rating agencies. A downgrade of our financial strength ratings may adversely affect us and could potentially, among other things, adversely affect relationships with distributors of our products and services and retention of our sales force, negatively impact persistency and new sales, and generally adversely affect our ability to compete. A downgrade in the issuer credit rating assigned to Unum Group or a negative outlook statement by a rating agency could have an effect on our ability to raise capital and on our cost of capital. See "Ratings" contained herein in Item 1 and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 for further discussion.Events that damage our reputation may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. There are many events which may harm our reputation. These events could include but are not limited to those discussed in this Item 1A regarding regulatory investigations concerning one or more aspects of broker compensation and related matters, as well as legal proceedings which have previously and may in the future result in court rulings and jury verdicts against us. Decisions such as exiting a line of business or implementing premium rate increases may result in negative publicity and unfavorable regulatory responses. Our reliance on independent contractors and brokers to distribute many of our products exposes our reputation to the possibility of being damaged by sales practices over which we have no means of direct control. Depending on the severity of the damage to our reputation, we may be unable to effectively compete for new products or retain our existing business. Damage to our reputation may also hinder our ability to raise new capital and/or increase our cost of capital. See "Regulation" contained herein in Item 1 and Note 13 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for additional information on regulatory matters and legal proceedings.Volatility in long-term interest rates or the rate of return on pension plan assets may have a negative effect on the funded status of our pension plans and/or increase our pension costs. The rate of return on pension plan assets is determined based on the fair value of the plan assets at the beginning and end of the measurement period. Declines in long-term interest rates or the fair value of our plan assets may result in a decrease in the funded status of our pension plans and/or increased pension costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. Conversely, a rise in interest rates could unfavorably impact the fair value of both the fixed income and equity investments in our pension plans. See "Critical Accounting Estimates" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 and Note 8 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion.We provide a broad array of disability, long-term care, group life, and voluntary insurance products that are affected by many factors, and changes in any of those factors may adversely affect our profitability or cash flows. Disability InsuranceDisability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. Changes in societal attitudes, such as work ethic, motivation, or stability, can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from disability products. Competition in disability insurance has also been markedly affected by the growth of social security, workers' compensation, and other governmental programs in the workplace. 21Both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence and recoveries for disability insurance. Claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence. Claim incidence and claim recovery rates may also be influenced by the emergence of new infectious diseases or illnesses. Claim durations may be extended by medical improvements which could extend life expectancies. The relationship between these and other factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims. Within the group disability market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates. However, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices. In addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time. The pricing actions available in the individual disability market differ between product classes. Our individual noncancelable disability policies, in which the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, do not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business. Guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group disability market. Long-term Care InsuranceLong-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. Because long-term care insurance is a relatively new product for the insurance industry and is long-duration in nature, there is not as much historical data as is available for our other products. This creates a level of uncertainty in properly pricing the product and using appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves. Long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but the re-pricing is subject to regulatory approval which can affect the length of time in which the re-pricing can be implemented, if at all. We monitor our own experience and industry studies concerning morbidity, mortality, and policyholder terminations to understand emerging trends. Changes in actual experience relative to our expectations may adversely affect our profitability and reserves. Mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy has increased, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives long-term care benefits and may subject more policyholders to advanced aging and an associated increase in claims incidence. Due to the long duration of the product, we may be unable to purchase appropriate assets with cash flows and durations such that the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing liabilities. Sustained periods of low interest rates could result in lower than expected profitability and increases in reserves. Group Life InsuranceGroup life insurance may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates. Claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks and natural disasters, which may also affect the availability of reinsurance coverage. There are a series of lawsuits pending in federal courts challenging the use of retained asset accounts in group life plans that are governed by ERISA. If these challenges are upheld by the courts, our ability to use such accounts for the beneficiaries of these plans may be adversely affected. Voluntary ProductsVoluntary products sold in the workplace may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the level of employee participation and the amount of insurance the employees elect, our risk selection process, and our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics. Our voluntary life insurance products generally include interest-sensitive forms of insurance which contain a guaranteed minimum interest crediting rate. It is possible that our investment returns could be lower than the guaranteed crediting rate. The non-life contracts are guaranteed renewable and can be repriced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as for group disability and group life products. See "Reserves for Policy and Contract Benefits" contained herein in Item 1 and "Executive Summary" and "Critical Accounting Estimates" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 for further discussion. 22An assessment by a governing tax authority may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws in a multitude of jurisdictions, both domestic and foreign. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.We may be required to establish a valuation allowance against our deferred income tax asset.  Factors in our ability to realize a tax benefit from our deferred income tax asset include the performance of our businesses and our ability to generate realized investment gains. If we determine that all or a portion of the deferred income tax asset will not result in a future tax benefit, a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income or other comprehensive income. Such charges may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The likelihood of recording a valuation allowance increases during periods of economic downturn.Our overall risk management program may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business.We have devoted significant resources to develop our enterprise risk management program, which has the objective of managing our strategic, market, credit, insurance, operations, capital and liquidity, and reputational risks. However, our program may not be comprehensive, and our methods for managing risk may not fully predict future exposures. See "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" contained herein in Item 7A for further information about our risk management program. Litigation is common in our businesses and may result in material financial losses and/or harm to our reputation. Unum Group and its subsidiaries are defendants in a number of lawsuits. The outcome of these lawsuits is uncertain. An estimated loss is accrued when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. An adverse outcome in one or more of these actions may, depending on the nature, scope and amount of the ruling, materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings.Unum Group and its insurance subsidiaries, as part of their normal operations in managing claims, are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits. Typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. For our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. We expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our financial condition. Nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages may, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses. See Note 13 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings.United Kingdom currency translation risk could materially impact reported operating results. The functional currency of our U.K. operations is the British pound sterling. Fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our financial results. In periods when the pound weakens, translating pounds into dollars decreases current period results relative to the prior period. In periods when the pound strengthens, translating pounds into dollars increases current period results in relation to the prior period. However, it is important to distinguish between translating and converting foreign currency. Except for a limited number of transactions, we do not actually convert pounds into dollars. As a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting item and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the U.K. 23We are subject to various operational risks resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes or from external events which may damage our market position and reputation and/or adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We face challenges and risks associated with the development, sale, and retention of product offerings that meet the needs of our targeted markets; maintaining effective underwriting and pricing discipline; continued effective claim management and customer service performance; ongoing expense management; delivering effective technology solutions; continued effective controls over our asset management and derivative trading activities; continued execution of our capital management strategy; and the successful implementation of operational improvements and strategic growth initiatives. Failure to successfully manage our operational risks may adversely affect our competitiveness, profitability, or financial condition.Our ability to finance our ongoing operations may not always be possible solely from internal sources of capital and liquidity. If we need to seek external capital, there is the risk that adverse market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital or our cost of capital. A change in demand for our insurance products or an increase in the incidence of new claims or the duration of existing claims could negatively impact our cash flows from operations. Deterioration in the credit market, which could delay our ability to sell our positions in certain of our fixed maturity securities in a timely manner, could also negatively impact our cash flows. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations, and our business may suffer. If our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may be unable to successfully obtain additional financing and capital on favorable terms, or at all, which may adversely affect us. In the near term, we expect that our need for external financing is small, but changes in our business could increase our need. If our financial results are unfavorable, we may need to increase our capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or satisfy regulatory requirements. Maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus, as measured by state insurance regulations, is considered important by state insurance regulatory authorities and the rating agencies that rate insurers' claims-paying abilities and financial strength. Failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by state regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies. Regulatory changes such as those discussed herein in this Item 1A may impose higher capital or reserve requirements on our insurance subsidiaries. Need for additional capital may limit a subsidiary's ability to distribute funds to the holding company and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and meet our debt and other payment obligations. Obtaining financing for even a small amount of capital could be complicated in unfavorable market conditions and during periods of economic uncertainty. The markets may exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. The availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. Raising capital in unfavorable market conditions could increase our interest expense or negatively impact our shareholders through increased dilution of their common stock in Unum Group. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 for further discussion.Our subsidiaries may be restricted from paying dividends to our holding companies which could adversely impact our ability to pay dividends and other obligations.Unum Group and certain of its subsidiaries rely on dividends from our insurance and non-insurance company subsidiaries to make dividend payments on our common stock, meet debt payment obligations, and pay our other obligations. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds or other assets to affiliates. The level of statutory earnings and capital in our insurance subsidiaries could impact their ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to our holding companies, which could impair our ability to pay our dividends or meet our debt and other payment obligations. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 and Note 14 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for a discussion of the existing regulatory limitations on dividends.24Reinsurance may not be available or affordable, or reinsurers may be unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under our reinsurance contracts, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various businesses. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection. Any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our results of operations. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue. The collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers. We cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. The insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We have intangible assets such as deferred acquisition costs (DAC), value of business acquired (VOBA), and goodwill. We may be required to accelerate amortization or recognize an impairment, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We defer certain costs incurred in acquiring new business and expense these costs over the life of the related policies. These costs include certain commissions, other agency compensation, selection and policy issue expenses, and field expenses. VOBA represents the present value of future profits recorded in connection with the acquisition of a block of insurance policies. DAC and VOBA are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies. Recoverability testing for DAC and VOBA is performed on an annual basis. Insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts. If recoverability testing indicates that either DAC and/or VOBA are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense. Accounting standard updates which we will be required to adopt in our first quarter 2012 filing will result in a decrease to our existing DAC asset. See "Executive Summary" and "Critical Accounting Estimates" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 and Notes 1, 5, and 12 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8. Goodwill is not amortized, but on an annual basis we review the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, considering in that review the financial performance and other relevant factors. In accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below. In addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually. A cyber security incident that bypasses our information technology security systems may lead to a material disruption of our information technology systems and/or the loss of information, resulting in adverse impacts to our profitability, our business, and our reputation. Maintaining the security systems to protect the systems and data is critical to our reputation. We seek to prevent, detect, and investigate security incidents to prevent their recurrence but in some cases we may be unaware of emerging threats and the magnitude of their effects. The theft, destruction, or unauthorized use of confidential data could cause, among other things, operational disruption and reputational harm. We could suffer operational delays resulting from the disruption of our information technology systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities. Negative publicity regarding a security breach could result in damage to our competitive position and our reputation with our customers and business partners. We maintain cyber liability insurance that provides coverage for network security, privacy liability, technology errors and omissions, media liability, first party network business interruption, electronic restoration, and cyber extortion. This coverage also provides sub-limits for credit monitoring, notification costs, regulatory expense, and investigative expense. Our insurance may not provide adequate loss coverage in all circumstances.Extreme events, including political instability or terrorism, can affect the economy in general, our industry, and us specifically. Events such as epidemics, pandemics, political instability, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, or other extreme events may materially adversely affect our business, the level of claims, or our results of operations, and in the event of extreme circumstances, our financial condition or viability. Beyond obtaining insurance coverage for our facilities, there are few, if any, commercial options through which to transfer the exposure from extreme events away from us. We purchase reinsurance protection against catastrophic disaster events, including terrorism. The continued threat of terrorism could result in increased 25reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. In the event of nuclear or bioterrorism attacks, epidemics, or other extreme events, we could face significant costs depending on the government's actions and the responsiveness of public agencies and other insurers. In addition, we may also be adversely affected if we do not maintain adequate procedures to ensure disaster recovery and business continuity for our facilities and operations in the event of such occurrences. See "Reinsurance" contained herein in Item 1 for further discussion.We also face other risks that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition, including but not limited to:•A significant deficiency in our internal controls over financial reporting;•Any requirement to restate financial results due to inappropriate application of accounting principles;•A guaranty fund assessment by a governing regulatory body to cover the proportional cost of an insolvent or failed insurer;•Failure to adequately plan for succession of our senior management and other key executives; and•Failure of our processes to prevent and detect fraud and/or unethical conduct of employees.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS