Item 1A.Risk Factors.(amounts in thousands, except percentages)You should carefully consider the following risk factors before you decide to invest in Alexion and our business because these risk factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.Risks Related to Our Products We depend heavily on the success of our lead product, Soliris. If we are unable to increase sales of Soliris, or sales of Soliris are adversely affected, our business may be materially harmed.Currently, our ability to generate revenues depend on the commercial success of Soliris and whether physicians, patients and health care payers view Soliris as therapeutically effective and safe relative to cost. Since we launched Soliris in the United States in April 2007, essentially all of our revenue has been attributed to sales of Soliris. In July 2015, we received marketing approval of our second marketed product, Strensiq (asfotase alfa) for the treatment of HPP, in Japan. In 2015, we also believe we will receive marketing approval of Kanuma for the treatment of LAL-D in the U.S. and other countries, and of Strensiq in additional countries. However, we anticipate that Soliris product sales will continue to contribute to a significant percentage of our total revenue over the next several years.The commercial success of Soliris and our ability to generate and increase revenues depends on several factors, and is subject to risks and uncertainties, discussed in more detail below, including reimbursement, pricing, safety, and manufacturing. Our future commercial success depends on gaining regulatory approval for products in development, including Strensiq and Kanuma, and obtaining approvals for Soliris for additional indications.The testing, manufacturing and marketing of our products require regulatory approvals, including approval from the FDA and other regulatory agencies in other countries. Our future revenues would be adversely affected if we are delayed or do not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals in the U.S. and other countries for products in development, including Strensiq and Kanuma, and approvals for Soliris for additional indications.Several factors could affect our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals, including:•Preclinical tests or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical testing prior to initiating clinical trials, or to suspend ongoing studies;•we may decide, or regulators may require us, to modify the design of our preclinical studies or clinical trials which may cause us to delay or abandon the study;•we may be required to suspend or terminate one or more of clinical trials if we or a regulator determines that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks;•even if a product is approved, the scope of the approval may limit the indicated uses or the patient population, or may include significant limitations that could adversely affect the sales and profitability of the product;•after a product is approved, the FDA or other regulatory agencies in other countries may withdraw or modify an approval or request that we perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product due to a number of reasons, including safety concerns, adverse events and side effects; and40•approved products, and our manufacturers, are subject to continuing and ongoing review by regulatory agencies, and the discovery of previously unknown problems with these products or the failure to comply with manufacturing or quality control requirements may result in restrictions on the manufacture, sale or use of a product or its withdrawal from the market.We dedicate significant resources to the worldwide commercialization of our products. We have established sales and marketing capabilities in the United States and in many countries throughout the world. We cannot guarantee that any marketing application for our products will be approved or maintained in any country where we seek marketing authorization. In certain countries, we must finalize operational, reimbursement, price approval and funding processes for each product so that we may, upon conclusion of such discussions, commence commercial sales of in those countries. Our ability to complete such processes successfully is subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain reimbursement for our products or successfully commercialize our products in any additional countries, or that we will be able to maintain coverage or reimbursement at anticipated levels in any country in which we have already received marketing approval. As a result, sales in certain countries may be delayed or never occur, or may be subsequently reduced.The commercial success of our products and our ability to generate and increase revenues will depend on several factors, including the following:•receipt of marketing approvals in new territories, and the maintenance of marketing approvals for Soliris in the United States, the European Union, Japan and other territories;•our ability to obtain sufficient coverage or reimbursement by government or third-party payers and our ability to maintain coverage or reimbursement at anticipated levels;•establishment and maintenance of our commercial manufacturing capabilities ourselves or through third-party manufacturers; •the number of patients with PNH, aHUS, HPP, and LAL-D and the number of those patients who are diagnosed and identified to us;•the number of patients with PNH and aHUS that may be treated with Soliris, the number of patients with HPP that may be treated with Strensiq, and the number of patients with LAL-D that may be treated with Kanuma;•successful continuation of commercial sales in the United States, Japan and in European countries where we are already selling Soliris for the treatment of PNH and aHUS;•successful launch of our products in countries where we have not yet obtained, or only recently obtained, marketing approval or commenced sales;•acceptance of our products and maintenance of safety and efficacy in the medical community; and•our ability to develop, register and commercialize Soliris for indications other than PNH and aHUS. If we are not successful in increasing sales of our products in the United States, Europe and Japan and commercializing in the rest of the world, or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, we may experience surplus inventory, our business may be materially harmed and we may need to significantly curtail operations.If we are unable to obtain, or maintain at anticipated levels, reimbursement for our products, including Soliris, from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, our pricing may be affected or our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed.We may not be able to sell our products, including Soliris, on a profitable basis or our profitability may be reduced if we are required to sell our products at lower than anticipated prices or reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope or amount. Soliris is significantly more expensive than traditional drug treatments and almost all patients require some form of third party coverage to afford its cost. Our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if we cannot depend on governmental payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid in the United States or country specific governmental organizations in foreign countries, and private third-party payers to defray the cost of Soliris or our other products to patients. These entities may refuse to provide coverage and reimbursement, determine to provide a lower level of coverage and reimbursement than anticipated, or reduce previously approved levels of coverage and reimbursement, including in the form of higher mandatory rebates or modified pricing terms. In any such case, our pricing or reimbursement for our products may be affected and our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. In certain countries where we sell or are seeking or may seek to commercialize our products, including certain countries where we both sell Soliris for the treatment of PNH and sell or seek to commercialize Soliris for the treatment of aHUS, if approved by the appropriate regulatory authority, pricing, coverage and level of reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control. We may be unable to timely or successfully negotiate coverage, pricing, and reimbursement on terms 41that are favorable to us, or such coverage, pricing, and reimbursement may differ in separate regions in the same country. In some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country, and we cannot guarantee that we will have the capabilities or resources to successfully conclude the necessary processes and commercialize our products in every, or even most countries in which we seek to sell Soliris.Reimbursement sources are different in each country and in each country may include a combination of distinct potential payers, including private insurance and governmental payers. For example, the European Union member states' authorities may restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and adopt additional measures to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. This includes the use of reference pricing and Health Technology Assessment (HTA). HTA is the procedure according to which the assessment of the public health impact, therapeutic impact and the economic and societal impact of the use of a given medicinal product in the national healthcare systems of the individual country is conducted. HTA generally focuses on the clinical efficacy and effectiveness, safety, cost, and cost-effectiveness of individual medicinal products as well as their potential implications for the healthcare system. These elements of medicinal products are compared with other treatment options available on the market. The national authorities of some European Union member states may from time to time approve a specific price for the medicinal product. Others may adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the national market. Some countries have and others may seek to impose limits on the aggregate reimbursement for Soliris or for the use of Soliris for certain indications. In such cases, our commercial operations in such countries and our results of operations and our business are and may be adversely affected. Our results of operations may suffer if we are unable to successfully and timely conclude reimbursement, price approval or funding processes and market Soliris or our other products in such foreign countries or if coverage and reimbursement for Soliris is limited or reduced. If we are not able to obtain coverage, pricing or reimbursement on terms acceptable to us or at all, or if such terms should change in any foreign countries, we may not be able to or we may determine not to sell our products in such countries, or we could decide to sell our products at a lower than anticipated price in such countries, and our revenues may be adversely affected as a result.The potential increase in the number of patients receiving Soliris may cause third-party payers to modify or limit coverage or reimbursement for Soliris for the treatment of PNH, aHUS, or both indications.Changes in pricing or the amount of reimbursement in countries where we currently commercialize our products may also reduce our profitability and worsen our financial condition. In the United States, the European Union member states, and elsewhere, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, efforts to control and reduce health care costs. Third party payers decide which drugs they will pay for and establish reimbursement and co-payment levels. Government and other third-party payers in the United States and the European Union member states are increasingly challenging the prices charged for health care products, examining the cost effectiveness of drugs in addition to their safety and efficacy, and limiting or attempting to limit both coverage and the level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. A significant reduction in the amount of reimbursement or pricing for Soliris in one or more countries may have a material adverse effect on our business. See additional discussion below under the headings "Changes in healthcare law and implementing regulations, including those based on recently enacted legislation, as well as changes in healthcare policy and Government initiatives that affect coverage and reimbursement of drug products may impact our business in ways that we cannot currently predict and these changes could adversely affect our business and financial condition" and "The credit and financial market conditions may aggravate certain risks affecting our business." In addition, certain countries establish pricing and reimbursement amounts by reference to the price of the same or similar products in other countries. If coverage or the level of reimbursement is limited in one or more countries, we may be unable to obtain or maintain anticipated pricing or reimbursement in current or new territories.Many third-party payers cover only selected drugs, making drugs that are not preferred by such payer more expensive for patients, and require prior authorization or failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug. Third-party payers may be especially likely to impose these obstacles to coverage for higher-priced drugs such as Soliris.Payers in the U.S. also are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates, such as average sales price (ASP), average manufacturer price, and actual acquisition cost. The existing data for reimbursement based on these metrics is relatively limited, although certain states have begun to survey acquisition cost data for the purpose of setting Medicaid reimbursement rates. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the federal agency that administers Medicare and the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, has begun posting drafts of this retail survey price information on at least a monthly basis in the form of draft National Average Drug Acquisition Cost (NADAC) files, which reflect retail community pharmacy invoice costs, and National Average Retail Price (NARP) files, which reflect retail community pharmacy prices to consumers. In July 2013, CMS suspended the publication of draft NARP data, pending funding decisions. In November 2013, CMS moved to publishing final rather than draft NADAC data and has since made updated NADAC data publicly available on a weekly basis. Therefore, it may be difficult to project the impact of these evolving reimbursement mechanics on the willingness of payers to cover Soliris.42Even in countries where patients have access to insurance, their insurance co-payment amounts or annual or lifetime caps on reimbursements may represent a barrier to obtaining or continuing Soliris. We have financially supported non-profit organizations which assist patients in accessing treatment for PNH and aHUS, including Soliris. Such organizations assist patients whose insurance coverage leaves them with prohibitive co-payment amounts or other expensive financial obligations. Such organizations' ability to provide assistance to patients is dependent on funding from external sources, and we cannot guarantee that such funding will be provided at adequate levels, if at all. We have also provided Soliris without charge to patients who have no insurance coverage for drugs through related charitable purposes. We are not able to predict the financial impact of the support we may provide for these and other charitable purposes; however, substantial support could have a material adverse effect on our profitability in the future.We are also focusing development efforts on the use of eculizumab for the treatment of additional diseases. The success of these programs depends on many factors, including those described in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. As Soliris is approved by regulatory agencies for indications other than PNH and aHUS, the potential increase in the number of patients receiving Soliris may cause third-party payers to refuse coverage or reimbursement for Soliris for the treatment of PNH, aHUS or for any other approved indication, or provide a lower level of coverage or reimbursement than anticipated or currently in effect.We may not be able to maintain market acceptance of our products among the medical community or patients, or gain market acceptance of our products in the future, which could prevent us from maintaining profitability or growth. We cannot be certain that our products will maintain market acceptance in a particular country among physicians, patients, health care payers, and others. Although we have received regulatory approval for Soliris in certain territories, including the United States, Japan and the European Union, and for Strensiq in Japan, such approvals do not guarantee future revenue. We cannot predict whether physicians, other health care providers, government agencies or private insurers will determine or continue to accept that our products are safe and therapeutically effective relative to its cost. Physicians' willingness to prescribe, and patients' willingness to accept, our products, depends on many factors, including prevalence and severity of adverse side effects in both clinical trials and commercial use, the timing of the market introduction of competitive drugs, lower demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs, perceived lack of cost-effectiveness, pricing and lack of availability of reimbursement from third-party payers, convenience and ease of administration, effectiveness of our marketing strategy, publicity concerning the product, our other product candidates or competing products, and availability of alternative treatments, including bone marrow transplant as an alternative treatment for PNH. The likelihood of physicians to prescribe Soliris for patients with aHUS may also depend on how quickly Soliris can be delivered to the hospital or clinic and our distribution methods may not be sufficient to satisfy this need. In addition, we are aware that medical doctors have determined not to continue Soliris treatment for some patients with aHUS. Health insurance programs may restrict coverage of some products by using payer formularies under which only selected drugs are covered, variable co-payments that make drugs that are not preferred by the payer more expensive for patients, and by using utilization management controls, such as requirements for prior authorization or failure on another type of treatment. Payers may especially impose these obstacles to coverage for higher-priced drugs, and consequently our drug products may be subject to payer-driven restrictions. In addition, in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, European Union member states may restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices and/or reimbursement of medicinal products for human use. A European Union member state may approve a specific price or level of reimbursement for the medicinal product, or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. The reimbursement or budget identified by a government or non-government payer for our products, including Soliris in a new indication, if obtained, may be adversely affected by the reimbursement or budget for Soliris in previously approved indications and/or adversely affect the reimbursement or budget for Soliris in such previously approved indication by that payer.If our products fail to achieve or maintain market acceptance among the medical community or patients in a particular country, we may not be able to market and sell it successfully in such country, which would limit our ability to generate revenue and could harm our overall business.43If we or any third party manufacturer or provider fails to provide sufficient quantities of our products or our product candidates, including Soliris for new indications, we could experience product shortages, commercialization of our products may be stopped or delayed, our clinical trials could be disrupted or regulatory approvals could be delayed. Soliris is manufactured by Alexion at ARIMF and by Lonza. Strensiq is manufactured by Lonza. We depend on a very limited number of third party providers for the manufacture and supply of Soliris, Strensiq and our product candidates. The manufacture of our products and our product candidates is difficult, requiring a multi-step controlled process and even minor problems or deviations could result in defects or failures. Manufacture of our products, including Soliris, is highly technical, and only a small number of companies have the ability and capacity to manufacture our products for our development and commercialization needs. Due to the highly technical requirements of manufacturing our products and the strict quality and control specifications, we and our third party providers may be unable to manufacture or supply our products despite our and their efforts. In addition, we cannot be certain that any third party will be able or willing to honor the terms of its agreement, including any obligations to manufacture our products in accordance with regulatory requirements and to our quality specifications and volume requirements. We cannot be certain that we, Lonza or our other third party providers will be able to perform uninterrupted supply chain services. The failure to manufacture appropriate supplies of our products, on a timely basis, or at all, may prevent or interrupt commercialization. If we, Lonza or our other third party providers were unable to manufacture our products for any period for any reason, including due to the loss of approvals, or if we, Lonza or our other third party providers do not obtain approval for the manufacturing of our products in the respective facility by the applicable regulatory agencies, we may incur substantial loss of sales. See also our Risk Factor "If we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply with United States and foreign regulations, we or our manufacturers could lose our approvals to market our products, including Soliris, or our product candidates, and our business would be seriously harmed." We may also lose any redundancy in our manufacturing capabilities if we are no longer able to perform operations at ARIMF or any other facility. The failure to manufacture appropriate supplies of our product candidates, on a timely basis, or at all, may prevent or interrupt clinical development of our products, including Soliris for new indications. If we are forced to find an alternative supplier or other third party providers, in addition to loss of sales and disruption to patients, we may also incur significant costs and experience significant delay in establishing a new arrangement.We are authorized to sell Soliris that is manufactured by Lonza and at ARIMF in the United States, the European Union, Japan and certain other territories. However, manufacturing Soliris for commercial sale in certain other territories may only be performed at a single facility until such time as we have received the required regulatory approval for an additional facility, if ever. We will continue to depend entirely on one facility to manufacture Soliris for commercial sale in such other territories until that time. We also depend entirely on one facility to manufacture Strensiq. Similarly, we also depend on a single manufacturing facility for the purification of Kanuma for commercial sale.We have obtained marketing approval for Soliris for the treatment of patients with aHUS in the United States, the European Union, Japan and other territories. We expect that the demand for Soliris will increase. We may underestimate demand, or experience product interruptions at ARIMF, Lonza or a facility of a third party provider, including as a result of risks and uncertainties described in this report. If we, Lonza or our other third party providers do not manufacture sufficient quantities of our products to satisfy demand, our business will be materially harmed.We depend on a very limited number of third party providers for other services with respect to our clinical and commercial requirements, including product filling, finishing, packaging, and labeling. We have changed or added third party fill/finish providers in the past in order to support uninterrupted supply, and may do so in the future. We currently rely on a small number of third party fill/finish providers to support our commercial requirements. No guarantee can be made that regulators will approve additional third party fill/finish providers in a timely manner or at all, or that any third party fill/finish providers will be able to perform such services for sufficient product volumes for any country or territory. We do not have control over any third party provider's compliance with our internal or external specifications or the rules and regulations of the FDA, EMA, competent authorities of the European Union member states, MHLW or any other applicable regulations or standards. In the past, we have had to write off and incur other charges and expenses for production that failed to meet requirements, including with respect to recalls initiated in 2013 and 2014. We have limited experience manufacturing commercial quantities of Strensiq. We acquired Kanuma upon consummating the acquisition of Synageva in June 2015. We have limited experience manufacturing Kanuma. We expect to substantially rely on the technical expertise and experience of Synageva-legacy employees and operations to manufacture sufficient quantities of Kanuma to satisfy our commercial requirements. Certain of the raw materials required in the manufacturing and the formulation of our products are derived from biological sources. Such raw materials are difficult to procure and may be subject to contamination or recall. Also, some countries in which we may operate could restrict the use of certain biologically derived substances in the manufacture of drugs. Access to and supply of sufficient quantities of raw materials which meet the technical specifications for the production process is 44challenging, and limited to single-source suppliers. Finding an alternative supplier could take a significant amount of time and involve significant expense due to the nature of the products and the need to obtain regulatory approvals. The failure of these single-source suppliers to supply adequate quantities of raw materials for the production process in a timely manner may impact our ability to produce sufficient quantities of our products for clinical or commercial requirements. A material shortage, contamination, recall, or restriction on the use of certain biologically derived substances or any raw material used in the manufacture of our products could adversely impact or disrupt manufacturing , could result in a product shortage of clinical or commercial requirements, could result in a withdrawal of our product candidates or any approved products, or could cause us to incur significant expenses. As a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations might be materially harmed.Any difficulties or delays in our third party manufacturing, or any failure of our third party providers to comply with our internal and external specifications or any applicable rules, regulations and standards could increase our costs, constrain our ability to satisfy demand for our products from customers, cause us to lose revenue or incur penalties for failure to deliver product, make us postpone or cancel clinical trials, or cause our products to be recalled or withdrawn, such as the voluntary recalls, that we initiated in 2013 and 2014 due to the presence of visible particles in a limited number of vials in specific lots. Even if we are able to find alternatives they may ultimately be insufficient for our needs. Due to the nature of the current market for third-party commercial manufacturing, many arrangements require substantial penalty payments by the customer for failure to use the manufacturing capacity for which it contracted. Penalty payments under these agreements typically decrease over the life of the agreement, and may be substantial initially and de minimis or non-existent in the final period. The payment of a substantial penalty could harm our financial condition.In April 2014, we acquired a fill/finish facility in Ireland to support global distribution of Soliris and Alexion's other clinical and commercial products. To date, we have relied entirely on third party fill/finish providers and have never operated our own fill/finish facility. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully complete the appropriate validation processes or obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, or that we will be able to perform fill/finish services at this facility to support our product requirements. Many additional factors could cause production interruptions at ARIMF or at the facilities of Lonza or our third party providers, including natural disasters, labor disputes, acts of terrorism or war, human error, equipment malfunctions, contamination, or raw material shortages. The occurrence of any such event could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for Soliris, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results.If we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply with United States and foreign regulations, we or our manufacturers could lose our approvals to market our products, including Soliris, or our product candidates, and our business would be seriously harmed. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain our regulatory approvals for our products, including Soliris. If we do not maintain our regulatory approvals, the value of our company and our results of operations will be materially harmed. We and our current and future partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by governmental authorities around the world, including the FDA, EMA, the competent authorities of the European Union member states, and MHLW. If we or a regulatory agency discover previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, the manufacturing facility or us. For example, in March 2013, we received the Warning Letter from the FDA relating to compliance with cGMP at ARIMF. In August 2014 we announced that we received a Form 483 with three observations following an FDA inspection at ARIMF. If we do not resolve outstanding concerns expressed by the FDA in the Warning Letter and the August 2014 Form 483 to the satisfaction of the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory agency, or we or our third-party providers, including our product fill/finish providers, packagers and labelers, fail to comply fully with applicable regulations then we may be required to initiate a recall or withdrawal of our products. The safety profile of any product continues to be closely monitored by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities after approval. Regulations continue to apply after product approval, and cover, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, finishing, filling, labeling, advertising, promotion, risk mitigation, adverse event reporting requirements, and export of biologics. For example, the risk management program established in 2007 upon the FDA's approval of Soliris for the treatment of PNH was replaced with a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) program, approved by the FDA in 2010. The REMS program requires mandatory physician certification in the United States. Each physician must certify that the physician is aware of the potential risks associated with the administration of Soliris and that the physician will inform each patient of these risks using educational material approved by the FDA. In November 2014, we met with the FDA Drug Safety and Risk Management Advisory Committee to discuss adjustments to the REMS with elements to assure safe use (ETASU). A majority of the Committee favored revising the REMS and made suggestions for streamlining prescriber assessments and broadening the program’s educational outreach. Changes to the Soliris REMS could be costly and burdensome to implement.45 As a condition of approval for marketing our products, governmental authorities may require us to conduct additional studies. For example, in connection with the approval of Soliris in the United States, European Union and Japan, for the treatment of PNH, we agreed to establish a PNH Registry, monitor immunogenicity, monitor compliance with vaccination requirements, and determine the effects of anticoagulant withdrawal among PNH patients receiving eculizumab, and, specifically in Japan, we agreed to conduct a trial in a limited number of Japanese PNH patients to evaluate the safety of a meningococcal vaccine. Further, in connection with the approval of Soliris in the United States for the treatment of aHUS, we agreed to establish an aHUS Registry and complete additional human clinical studies in adult and pediatric patients. In the United States, for example, the FDA can propose to withdraw approval for a product if it determines that such additional studies are inadequate or if new clinical data or information shows that a product is not safe for use in an approved indication. We are required to report any serious and unexpected adverse experiences and certain quality problems with our products to the FDA, the EMA, the competent authorities of the European Union member states, MHLW, and certain other health agencies. We or any health agency may have to notify health care providers of any such developments.The discovery of any previously unknown problems with our products, a manufacturer or a facility may result in restrictions on the product, a manufacturer or a facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market, batch failures, or interruption of production or a product recall such as the Soliris recalls we announced and voluntarily initiated in 2013 and 2014. Certain changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often require prior regulatory approval before the product as modified may be marketed. Our manufacturing and other facilities and those of any third parties manufacturing our products will be subject to inspection prior to grant of marketing approval by each regulatory authority where we seek marketing approval and subject to continued review and periodic inspections by the regulatory authorities, such as the inspections that resulted in issuance of the Warning Letter. We and any third party we would use to manufacture our products for sale, including Lonza, must also be licensed by applicable regulatory authorities.The FDA requires reporting of certain information on side effects and adverse events reported during clinical studies and after marketing approval. Non-compliance with safety reporting requirements could result in regulatory action that may include civil action or criminal penalties.  Failure to comply with the laws and requirements, including statutes and regulations, administered by the FDA, the EMA, the competent authorities of the European Union member states, the MHLW or other agencies, including without limitation, failures or delays in resolving the concerns raised by the FDA in the Warning Letter, could result in:•a product recall;•a product withdrawal;•significant administrative and judicial sanctions, including, warning letters or untitled letters;•significant fines and other civil penalties;•suspension, variation or withdrawal of a previously granted approval for Soliris;•interruption of production;•operating restrictions, such as a shutdown of production facilities or production lines, or new manufacturing requirements;•suspension of ongoing clinical trials;•delays in approving or refusal to approve our products including pending Biologics License Applications (BLAs) or BLA supplements for Soliris, asfotase alfa, or sebelipase alfa or a facility that manufactures our products;•seizing or detaining product;•requiring us or our partners to enter into a consent decree, which can include imposition of various fines, reimbursements for inspection costs, required due dates for specific actions and penalties for noncompliance; •injunctions; and/or•criminal prosecution.46If the use of our products harms people, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to our products, our regulatory approvals could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted and we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims.The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of drugs for use in humans exposes us to product liability risks. Side effects and other problems from using our products could (1) lessen the frequency with which physicians decide to prescribe our products, (2) encourage physicians to stop prescribing our products to their patients who previously had been prescribed our products, (3) cause serious adverse events and give rise to product liability claims against us, and (4) result in our need to withdraw or recall our products from the marketplace. Some of these risks are unknown at this time.We tested our products in only a small number of patients. For example, the FDA marketing approval for the treatment of patients with aHUS was based on two prospective studies in a total of 37 adult and adolescent patients, together with a retrospective study that included 19 pediatric patients. Our products treat ultra-rare diseases. As more patients use our products, including more children and adolescents, new risks and side effects may be discovered, the rate of known risks or side effects may increase, and risks previously viewed as less significant could be determined to be significant. Previously unknown risks and adverse effects may also be discovered in connection with unapproved uses of our products, which may include administration of our products under acute emergency conditions, such as the Enterohemorrhagic E. coli health crisis in Europe, primarily Germany, that began in May 2011. We do not promote, or in any way support or encourage the promotion of our products for unapproved uses in violation of applicable law, but physicians are permitted to use products for unapproved purposes and we are aware of such uses of Soliris. In addition, we are studying and expect to continue to study Soliris in diseases other than PNH and aHUS in controlled clinical settings, and independent investigators are doing so as well. In the event of any new risks or adverse effects discovered as new patients are treated for approved indications, or as Soliris is studied in or used by patients for other indications, regulatory authorities may delay or revoke their approvals, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials and safety studies, make changes in labeling , reformulate our products or make changes and obtain new approvals for our and our suppliers' manufacturing facilities. We may also experience a significant drop in potential sales, experience harm to our reputation and the reputation of our products in the marketplace or become subject to lawsuits, including class actions. Any of these results could decrease or prevent any sales or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products.We may be sued by people who use our products, whether as a prescribed therapy, during a clinical trial, during an investigator initiated study, or otherwise. Many patients who use our products are already very ill. Any informed consents or waivers obtained from people who enroll in our trials or use our products may not protect us from liability or litigation. Our product liability insurance may not cover all potential types of liabilities or may not cover certain liabilities completely. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. In addition, negative publicity relating to the use of our products or a product candidate, or to a product liability claim, may make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to market and sell. As a result of these factors, a product liability claim, even if successfully defended, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Patients who use our products already often have severe and advanced stages of disease and known as well as unknown significant pre-existing and potentially life-threatening health risks. During the course of treatment, patients may suffer adverse events, including death, for reasons that may or may not be related to our products. Such events could subject us to costly litigation, require us to pay substantial amounts of money to injured patients, delay, negatively impact or end our opportunity to receive or maintain regulatory approval to market our products, or require us to suspend or abandon our commercialization efforts. Even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to our products, the investigation into the circumstance may be time consuming or inconclusive. These investigations may interrupt our sales efforts, delay our regulatory approval process in other countries, or impact and limit the type of regulatory approvals that our products receive or maintain.Some patients treated with Soliris for PNH and other diseases, including patients who have participated in our clinical trials, have died or suffered potentially life-threatening diseases either during or after ending their Soliris treatments. In particular, use of C5 Inhibitors, such as Soliris, is associated with an increased risk for certain types of infection, including meningococcal infection. Serious cases of meningococcal infection can result in severe illness, including but not limited to brain damage, loss of limbs or parts of limbs, kidney failure, or death. Under controlled settings, patients in our eculizumab trials all receive vaccination against meningococcal infection prior to first administration of Soliris and patients who are prescribed Soliris in most countries are required by prescribing guidelines to be vaccinated prior to receiving their first dose. A physician may not have the opportunity to timely vaccinate a patient in the event of an acute emergency episode, such as in a patient presenting with aHUS or during the health crisis that began in May 2011 in Europe, principally in Germany, due to the epidemic of infections from Enterohemorrhagic E. coli. Vaccination does not, however, eliminate all risk of meningococcal infection. Additionally, in some countries there may not be any vaccine approved for general use or approved for use in infants and children. Some patients treated with Soliris who had been vaccinated have nonetheless experienced meningococcal infection, including patients who have suffered serious illness or death. Each such incident is required to be reported to appropriate regulatory agencies in accordance with relevant regulations.47We are also aware of a potential risk for PNH patients who delay a dose of Soliris or discontinue their treatment of Soliris. Treatment with Soliris blocks complement and allows complement-sensitive PNH red blood cells to increase in number. If treatment with Soliris is thereafter delayed or discontinued, a greater number of red blood cells therefore would become susceptible to destruction when the patient's complement system is no longer blocked. The rapid destruction of a larger number of a patient's red blood cells may lead to numerous complications, including death. Several PNH patients in our studies of Soliris have received delayed doses or discontinued their treatment. In none of those circumstances were significant complications shown to be due to rapid destruction of a larger number of PNH red blood cells; however, we have not studied the delay or termination of treatment in enough patients to determine that such complications in the future are unlikely to occur. Additionally, such delays or discontinuations may be associated with significant complications without evidence of such rapid cell destruction.We are aware of a risk for aHUS patients who delay or miss a dose of Soliris or discontinue their treatment of Soliris. Treatment with Soliris blocks complement and inhibits complement-mediated TMA. After missing a dose or discontinuing Soliris, blood clots may form in small blood vessels throughout the body, causing a reduction in platelet count. The reduction in platelet count may lead to numerous complications, including changes in mental status, seizures, angina, thrombosis, renal failure or even death. In our aHUS clinical studies, such TMA complications were observed in some patients who missed a dose.Clinical evaluations of outcomes in the post-marketing setting are required to be reported to appropriate regulatory agencies in accordance with relevant regulations. Determination of significant complications associated with the delay or discontinuation of Soliris could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell Soliris.If we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully commercialize our products.We are marketing and selling our products ourselves in the United States, Europe, Japan and several other territories. With the acquisition of Synageva, we now expect to launch two products in 2015, which would be the second and third new product launches in Alexion's history. If we are unable to establish and/or expand our capabilities to sell, market and distribute our products, either through our own capabilities or by entering into agreements with others, or to maintain such capabilities in countries where we have already commenced commercial sales, we will not be able to successfully sell our products. In that event, we will not be able to generate significant revenues. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to establish and maintain our own capabilities or enter into and maintain any marketing or distribution agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we hire the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need to support our objectives, or enter into marketing and distribution agreements with third parties on acceptable terms, we may not do so in an efficient manner or on a timely basis. We may not be able to correctly judge the size and experience of the sales and marketing force and the scale of distribution capabilities necessary to successfully market and sell our products. Establishing and maintaining sales, marketing and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. Our expenses associated with building up and maintaining the sales force and distribution capabilities around the world may be disproportionate compared to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in commercializing any of our products.If we market our products in a manner that violates health care fraud and abuse laws and other laws regulating marketing and promotion, we may be subject to investigations and civil or criminal penalties.In addition to FDA and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal False Claims Act (FCA), the anti-kickback provisions of the federal Social Security Act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving any remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind to induce, or reward the purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal health care programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply broadly to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, patients, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Liability may be established without a person or entity having actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the PPACA), amended the Social Security Act to provide that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the FCA. A conviction for violation of the Anti-kickback Statute requires mandatory exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration to those who prescribe, purchase, or recommend pharmaceutical products, including certain discounts, education and research grants, purchase of speaking or consulting services, and patient assistance programs, may be subject to scrutiny or penalty if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. We seek to comply with the anti-kickback laws and with the available statutory exemptions and safe harbors. However, our practices may not in all cases fit within the safe harbors, and our practices may therefore be subject to case-by-case scrutiny.48The FCA prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment of government funds, or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim. Pharmaceutical companies have been investigated and have reached substantial financial settlements with the Federal government under the FCA for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; providing consulting fees and other benefits to physicians to induce them to prescribe products; reporting inflated prices to private publications that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the FDA has not approved, or "off-label" uses that caused claims to be submitted to Federal programs for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the Medicaid Rebate Program. The majority of states also have statutes similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws that apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. In addition, several U.S. states and localities have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. Some state laws prohibit certain marketing-related activities including the provision of gifts, meals or other items to certain health care providers. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Additionally, PPACA enacted the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, being implemented as the Open Payments program, that requires manufacturers to track and report to the federal government, for public dissemination, payments and other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals. Many of these requirements are new and there is limited guidance on many aspects of how they will be interpreted, implemented and enforced. Nonetheless, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity.Sanctions under these federal and state fraud and abuse laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, monetary damages, criminal fines, and imprisonment. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements continue to comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations could be costly. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors and because government scrutiny in this area is high, it is possible that some of our business activities could come under that scrutiny. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could also harm our financial condition. Responding to government investigations or whistleblower lawsuits, defending any claims raised, and any resulting fines, damages, penalties, settlement payments or administrative actions, as well as any related actions brought by stockholders or other third parties, could have a material impact on our reputation, business and financial condition and divert the attention of our management from operating our business.  Although physicians in the United States are permitted to, based on their medical judgment, prescribe products for indications other than those cleared or approved by the FDA, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. In the United States, we market Soliris for PNH and aHUS and provide promotional materials and training programs to physicians regarding the use of Soliris for PNH and aHUS. Although we believe our marketing materials and training programs for physicians do not constitute off-label promotion of Soliris, the FDA, the U.S. Justice Department, or other federal or state government agencies may disagree. If the FDA or other government agencies determine that our promotional materials, training or other activities constitute off-label promotion of any of our products, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal or state enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false or fraudulent claims for payment of government funds. Even if it is later determined we are not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our position and have to divert significant management resources from other matters.Similar strict restrictions are imposed on the promotion and marketing of drug products in the European Union, where a large portion of our non-U.S. business is conducted, and other territories. Laws in the European Union, including in the individual European Union member states, require promotional materials and advertising for drug products to comply with the product's Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC), which is approved by the competent authorities. Promotion of a medicinal product which does not comply with the SmPC is considered to constitute off-label promotion. The off-label promotion of medicinal products is prohibited in the European Union and in other territories. The promotion of medicinal products that are not subject to a marketing authorization is also prohibited in the European Union. Laws in the European Union, including in the individual European Union member states, also prohibit the direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription-only medicinal products. Violations of the rules governing the promotion of medicinal products in the European Union and in other territories could be penalized by administrative measures, fines and imprisonment.Interactions between pharmaceutical companies and physicians are also governed by strict laws, regulations, industry self-regulation codes of conduct and physicians' codes of professional conduct in the individual European Union member 49states. The provision of any inducements to physicians to prescribe, recommend, endorse, order, purchase, supply, use or administer a medicinal product is prohibited. A number of European Union member states have introduced additional rules requiring pharmaceutical companies to publicly disclose their interactions with physicians and to obtain approval from employers, professional organizations and/or competent authorities before entering into agreements with physicians. These rules have been supplemented by provisions of related industry codes. Additional countries may consider or implement similar laws and regulations. Violations of these rules could lead to reputational risk, public reprimands, and/or the imposition of fines or imprisonment.If we fail to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other similar legal requirements, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or financial condition.We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act, and other anti-corruption laws and regulations that generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials and/or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Worldwide regulators are increasing their regulatory and enforcement efforts in this area. For example, the Bribery Act in the United Kingdom, effective as of July 2011 applies to any company incorporated in or "carrying on business" in the United Kingdom, regardless of the country in which the alleged bribery activity occurs and even if the inappropriate activity is undertaken by our international distribution partners. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We may operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having a greater potential for governmental and commercial corruption. We cannot assure that our policies and procedures will always protect Alexion from reckless or criminal acts committed by its employees or third-party intermediaries.Recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity by U.S. regulators, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the Department of Justice ("DOJ") and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), increased enforcement activity by non-U.S. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. Increasing regulatory scrutiny of the promotional activities of pharmaceutical companies also has been observed in a number of European Union member states. Laws, including those governing promotion, marketing and anti-kickback/anti-bribery provisions, and industry regulations are often strictly enforced. In the United States, additional governmental resources are being added to enforce these laws and to prosecute companies and individuals believed to be violating them. For example, PPACA included a number of provisions aimed at strengthening the government’s ability to pursue anti-kickback and false claims cases against pharmaceutical manufacturers and other healthcare entities, including substantially increased funding for healthcare fraud enforcement activities, enhanced investigative powers for government authorities, and amendments to the FCA that make it easier for the government and whistleblowers to pursue cases for alleged kickback and false claim violations. We anticipate that government scrutiny of pharmaceutical sales and marketing practices will continue for the foreseeable future and subject us to the risk of government investigations and whistleblower lawsuits. If we fail to comply with laws governing promotion, marketing and anti-kickback/anti-bribery provisions, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could have a material adverse effect on its reputation, business, results of operations or financial condition.As previously disclosed, in May 2015, we received a subpoena in connection with an investigation by the Enforcement Division of the SEC requesting information related to our grant-making activities and compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in various countries. The SEC also seeks information related to Alexion’s recalls of specific lots of Soliris and related securities disclosures. Alexion is cooperating with the SEC’s investigation, which is in its early stages. At this time, Alexion is unable to predict the duration, scope or outcome of the SEC investigation.Any determination that our operations or activities are not, or were not, in compliance with existing United States or foreign laws or regulations, including by the SEC pursuant to its investigation of our compliance with the FCPA and other matters, could result in the imposition of a broad range of civil and criminal sanctions against Alexion and certain of our directors, officers and/or employees, including injunctive relief, disgorgement, substantial fines or penalties, imprisonment, interruptions of business, debarment from government contracts, loss of supplier, vendor or other third-party relationships, termination of necessary licenses and permits, and other legal or equitable sanctions. Other internal or government investigations or legal or regulatory proceedings, including lawsuits brought by private litigants, may also follow as a consequence. Violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on its reputation, business, results of operations or financial condition. Cooperating with and responding to the SEC in connection with its investigation of our FCPA practices and other matters, as well as responding to any future U.S. or foreign governmental investigation or whistleblower lawsuit, could result in substantial expenses, and could divert management’s attention from other business concerns and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and growth prospects.50If we are unable to obtain regulatory approvals to market one or more of our product candidates, including asfotase alfa, sebelipase alfa, and Soliris for other indications, our business may be adversely affected.We currently market and sell one product, Soliris, for the treatment of PNH and aHUS. In July 2015, we obtained marketing authorization in Japan for our second product, Strensiq (asfotase alfa), and we expect to commence sales of Strensiq in Japan in the third quarter of 2015. Upon the acquisition of Synageva in June 2015, we acquired rights to Kanuma (sebelipase alfa), a late stage enzyme-replacement therapy under development for patients with LAL-D. Although we are preparing for commercial launches of Strensiq and Kanuma, we do not know when or if these products will be approved by the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory agency, or available for sale. We completed a rolling submission of our BLA for Strensiq in the U.S., which allowed completed portions of the application to be submitted and reviewed by the FDA on an ongoing basis, and the FDA has accepted for review the BLA for Kanuma. While the FDA accepted the applications, we cannot predict how long the approval process will take or when we will receive approval of Strensiq or Kanuma, if at all. All of our product candidates except Soliris, asfotase alfa, and sebelipase alfa are in early stages of development, and we do not expect our early stage product candidates to be commercially available for several years, if at all. We do not know when or if our other product candidates will be approved. Unfavorable clinical trial results, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, resolve pending concerns described in the Warning Letter, and inadequate manufacturing processes are examples of problems that could prevent approval. In addition, we may encounter delays or rejections due to additional government regulation from future legislation, administrative action or changes in the FDA policy. Even if the FDA approves a product, the approval will be limited to those indications covered in the approval.Outside the United States, our ability to market any of our potential products is dependent upon receiving marketing approvals from the appropriate regulatory authorities. These foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process described above. If we are unable to receive regulatory approvals, we will be unable to commercialize our product candidates, and our business may be adversely affected.Completion of preclinical studies or clinical trials does not guarantee advancement to the next phase of development.Completion of preclinical studies or clinical trials does not guarantee that we will initiate additional studies or trials for our product candidates, that if further studies or trials are initiated what the scope and phase of the trial will be or that they will be completed, or that if these further studies or trials are completed, that the design or results will provide a sufficient basis to apply for or receive regulatory approvals or to commercialize products. Results of clinical trials could be inconclusive, requiring additional or repeat trials. Data obtained from preclinical studies and clinical trials are subject to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Data that we believe is highly clinically significant, including the results of our HPP and LAL-D trials, could be interpreted differently by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. The results generated in clinical studies of Strensiq (asfotase alfa) and Kanuma (sebelipase alfa) which we believe to be positive, do not ensure that the products will be approved and the FDA or other regulatory agency could require additional preclinical or clinical data. If the design or results achieved in our clinical trials are insufficient to proceed to further trials or to regulatory approval of our product candidates, our company could be materially adversely affected. Failure of a clinical trial to achieve its pre-specified primary endpoint, such as the Phase II Soliris trial for AMR that we announced in January 2015, generally increases the likelihood that additional studies or trials will be required if we determine to continue development of the product candidate, reduces the likelihood of timely development of and regulatory approval to market the product candidate, and may decrease the chances for successfully achieving the primary endpoint in scientifically similar indications.There are many reasons why drug testing could be delayed or terminated.For human trials, patients must be recruited and each product candidate must be tested at various doses and formulations for each clinical indication. In addition, to ensure safety and effectiveness, the effect of drugs often must be studied over a long period of time, especially for the chronic diseases that we are studying. Many of our programs focus on diseases with small patient populations and insufficient patient enrollment in our clinical trials could delay or cause us to abandon a product development program. We may decide to abandon development of a product candidate at any time due to unfavorable results or other reasons, or we may have to spend considerable resources repeating clinical trials or conducting additional trials, either of which would increase costs and delay any revenue from those product candidates, if any. Additional factors that can cause delay, impairment or termination of our clinical trials or our product development efforts include:•delay or failure in obtaining institutional review board (IRB), approval or the approval of other reviewing entities to conduct a clinical trial at each site;•delay or failure in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations(CROs), and clinical trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites;51•withdrawal of clinical trial sites from our clinical trials as a result of changing standards of care or the ineligibility of a site to participate in our clinical trials;•clinical sites and investigators deviating from trial protocol, failing to conduct the trial in accordance with regulatory requirements, or dropping out of a trial;•slow patient enrollment, including, for example, due to the rarity of the disease being studied;•delay or failure in having patients complete a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up;•long treatment time required to demonstrate effectiveness;•lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate;•disruption of operations at the clinical trial sites;•adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients, and the threat of legal claims and litigation alleging injuries;•failure of patients taking the placebo to continue to participate in our clinical trials;•insufficient clinical trial data to support effectiveness of the product candidates;•lack of effectiveness or safety of the product candidate being tested;•lack of sufficient funds;•inability to meet required specifications or to manufacture sufficient quantities of the product candidate for development or commercialization activities in a timely and cost-efficient manner; •decisions by regulatory authorities, the IRB, ethics committee, or us, or recommendation by a data safety monitoring board, to suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time for safety issues or for any other reason;•failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for the product candidate or the approvals for the facilities in which such product candidate is manufactured; and•decisions by competent authorities, IRBs or ethics committees to demand variations in protocols or conduct of clinical trials.The regulatory approval process is costly and lengthy and we may not be able to successfully obtain all required regulatory approvals. The preclinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and labeling of pharmaceuticals are all subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities and agencies in the United States, the European Union and other territories. We must obtain regulatory approval for each of our product candidates, such as Strensiq (asfotase alfa), before marketing or selling any of them. It is not possible to predict how long the approval processes of the FDA or any other applicable federal or foreign regulatory authority or agency for any of our product candidates will take or whether any such approvals ultimately will be granted. For example, the EMA transitioned the MAA for Strensiq (asfotase alfa) from an accelerated assessment to a regular assessment. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion in the drug approval process, and positive results in preclinical testing or early phases of clinical studies offer no assurance of success in later phases of the approval process. The approval process varies from country to country and the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product manufacturing, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. Generally, preclinical and clinical testing of product candidates can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and the data obtained from these tests and trials can be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. If we encounter significant delays in the regulatory process, this may prevent us from continuing to develop our product candidates due to excessive costs or otherwise. Any delay in obtaining, or failure to obtain, approvals could adversely affect the marketing of our products and our ability to generate product revenue. The risks associated with the approval process include:•failure of our product candidates to meet a regulatory agency's requirements for safety, efficacy and quality;•disagreement over interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials;•restricted distribution or limitation on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed;•unforeseen safety issues or side effects and potential requirements to establish REMS or post-marketing obligations; •disapproval of the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we contract for clinical and commercial supplies; and•governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements and guidelines.52The FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority may require more information, including additional preclinical or clinical data, to support approval, which may delay or prevent approval and our commercialization plans, or we may decide to abandon the development program. If we were to obtain approval, regulatory authorities may approve any of our product candidates for fewer or more limited indications than we request, may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials, or may approve a product candidate with a label that is not desirable for the successful commercialization of that product candidate. In addition, if our product candidate produces undesirable side effects or safety issues, the FDA may require the establishment of REMS or a comparable foreign regulatory authority may require the establishment of a similar strategy, that may, for instance, restrict distribution of our products and impose burdensome implementation requirements on us. Any of the foregoing scenarios could materially harm the commercial prospects of our product candidates.Risks Related to Our Acquisition of Synageva Biopharma CorporationIf we do not successfully integrate Synageva into our operations, our business could be adversely affected. Even if we do successfully integrate Synageva, we may not achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition as rapidly or to the extent anticipated.We must successfully integrate the operations of Synageva with our business. We are focused on achieving the necessary synergies that we expect to experience from expanding our existing metabolic disease franchise with the acquisition of Kanuma (sebelipase alfa). Kanuma has not yet received marketing approval and as of the time of the acquisition, Synageva was making preparations to launch Kanuma in the U.S., Europe, Japan and other territories. We must successfully integrate Synageva with our business, which will require that we successfully launch both Kanuma and Strensiq to realize the anticipated synergies and benefits from the acquisition. Integrating Synageva operations will be a complex and time-consuming process. Prior to the acquisition, Synageva operated independently, with its own business, corporate culture, locations, employees and systems. There may be substantial difficulties, costs and delays involved in the integration of Synageva, including: •distracting our management from day-to-day operations, which could also negatively affect the launches of Strensiq or Kanuma;•the loss of qualified employees and our inability to retain Synageva employees;•an inability to achieve financial synergies as planned; and•costs and delays in combining our financial and other systems and procedures.One or more of these factors may increase our operating costs or adversely affect our financial performance, including a number of factors that are outside of our control. Achieving anticipated synergies and the potential benefits underlying our reasons for the acquisition will depend on successful integration of our businesses. In addition, we may not achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition as rapidly or to the extent anticipated, including to the extent that we are unable to effectively identify patients with LAL-D or as a result of adverse legal or regulatory developments. Synageva’s business may not perform as anticipated, including if preclinical and clinical trials of Kanuma and Synageva’s other product candidates do not produce positive results or are delayed, if serious side effects are identified during drug development, if a narrow label is received or if regulatory and marketing approval and commercialization of Kanuma​ and Synageva’s other product candidates is not achieved on the expected time frame or at all. The failure to integrate the business operations of Synageva successfully or the occurrence of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.The actual impact of the acquisition on our capital structure and financial results may be worse than our assumptions or forecasts.We have made a number of assumptions relating to the impact of the acquisition on our capital structure and financial results, including: •our expected capital structure after the acquisition;•the amount of goodwill and intangibles that will result from the acquisition;•certain other purchase accounting adjustments that we expect will be recorded in our financial statements in connection with the acquisition;•acquisition-related costs, including restructuring expenses and transaction costs; and•other financial and strategic risks of the acquisition.53Even if we successfully integrate Synageva, and regardless of our assumptions, the effect of the acquisition on our financial results may not meet our expectations or the expectations of financial analysts or our shareholders, or our creditworthiness may be adversely affected as a result of the increased indebtedness incurred to finance the acquisition, or our operating, transaction and integration costs may be higher than expected. If one or more of these events occurs, or our assumptions are incorrect, it could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results, and the perceived benefits from the acquisition may not be realized.We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities as a result of the acquisition, or our anticipated efficiency of the combined corporate structure may not be realized.As a company with international operations, we are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide tax liabilities. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome with respect to the taxes we owe may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements. As we integrate Synageva’s corporate structure into our own, we expect to realize near-term and long-term financial and tax efficiencies. For example, we believe that future tax payments may be reduced by utilizing Synageva’s net operating loss and orphan drug credit carry forwards, however, these deferred tax assets also may be subject to substantial annual limitations due to the acquisition under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (Code). As part of the merger of Trimeris Inc. and Synageva BioPharma Corp., a privately held Delaware corporation in 2011, Synageva acquired federal tax attributes that were significantly limited under Section 382 of the Code. The application of the tax laws and regulations of various countries in which we operate as an integrated structure and to our global operations is subject to interpretation. Our effective tax rate following the acquisition is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the risks and uncertainties described under the Risk Factor - “The intended efficiency of our corporate structure depends on the application of the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate and we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities or our effective tax rate could change, which could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.” The realization of such risks and uncertainties could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.We will incur significant transaction, integration and restructuring costs in connection with the acquisition.We have incurred significant transaction costs related to the acquisition. In addition, the combined business will incur integration and restructuring costs following the completion of the acquisition as we integrate Synageva’s businesses with our businesses. Although we expect that the realization of benefits and efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses may offset over time these transaction and integration and restructuring costs, no assurances can be made that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.If we are unable to commercialize Kanuma or experience significant delays in doing so, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.Our ability to generate product revenues from Synageva will depend heavily on the successful development and eventual commercialization of Kanuma. Although Kanuma met the pre-specified primary and six secondary endpoints in the Phase 3 clinical trial for children and adults, potential regulatory approval could be limited to the treatment of LAL-D only in infants, and that would represent a small portion of the total LAL-D patient population. The results of clinical trials may not prove sufficient to satisfy the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory agency, or result in a restricted product label that could negatively impact commercialization. We may need to conduct additional clinical trials at significant delay and cost or abandon development of altogether.Even if we receive regulatory approval for and are able to commercialize Kanuma, our success will be subject to the following risks:•we may not achieve market acceptance of Kanuma by physicians, patients and third-party payers;•Kanuma may not have an acceptable safety profile following approval;•we may not be able to manufacture Kanuma in compliance with requirements of the EMA, the FDA and similar regulatory agencies in commercial quantities sufficient to meet market demand;•we may not achieve sufficient pricing for Kanuma to compensate for future development and commercialization costs and to recoup our cost to acquire Synageva; and•we may not successfully enforce and defend our intellectual property rights and claims.The occurrence of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.54Risks Related to Intellectual PropertyIf we cannot obtain new patents, maintain, defend and enforce our existing patents and protect the confidentiality and proprietary nature of our trade secrets and other intellectual property, our business and competitive position will be harmed.In order to protect our drugs and technology more effectively, we need to obtain, maintain, defend and enforce patents covering the drugs and technologies we develop. We have and may in the future obtain patents or the right to practice patents through ownership or license. Our patent applications may not result in the issue of patents in the United States or other countries. Our patents may not afford adequate protection for our products. Changes in the law may limit our ability to obtain new patents and may limit our ability to defend and enforce our current patents. Third parties may challenge our patents, and have challenged our patents in the past. If any of our patents are narrowed, invalidated or become unenforceable, competitors may develop and market products similar to ours that do not conflict with or infringe our patents rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may also finance and collaborate in research conducted by government organizations, hospitals, universities or other educational or research institutions. Such research partners may be unwilling to grant us exclusive rights to technology or products developed through such collaborations. There is also a risk that disputes may arise as to the rights to technology or products developed in collaboration with other parties. Our products and our product candidates are expensive and time-consuming to test and develop. Even if we obtain and maintain patents, our business may be significantly harmed if the patents are not strong enough or broad enough to protect our drugs from copycat products.In addition, our business requires using sensitive technology, techniques and proprietary molecules that we protect as trade secrets. However, we may also rely heavily on collaboration with, or discuss the potential for collaboration with, suppliers, outside scientists and other drug companies. Collaboration and discussion of potential collaboration present a strong risk of exposing our trade secrets. If our trade secrets were exposed, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business prospects.If we are found to be infringing on patents owned by others, we may be forced to pay damages to the patent owner and/or obtain a license to continue the manufacture, sale or development of our drugs. If we cannot obtain a license, we may be prevented from the manufacture, sale or development of our products, which would adversely affect our business.Parts of our technology, techniques, processes, proprietary molecules and potential drug candidates, including those which are or may be in-licensed, may be found to infringe patents owned by or granted to others. We previously reported that Novartis and other third parties filed civil lawsuits against us claiming infringement of their intellectual property rights. Each of those matters has been resolved. However, additional third parties may claim that the research, development, manufacture, use or sale of Soliris, Strensiq, Kanuma or other drugs under development infringes patents owned or granted to such third parties. In addition to the civil actions referenced above, we have in the past received, and may in the future receive, notices from third parties claiming that their patents may be infringed by the research, development, manufacture, use or sale of our products or some of our drug candidates. We are aware of patent rights owned by third parties that might be claimed by such third parties to be infringed by the research, development and commercialization of our products and some of our drug candidates. In respect to some of these patents, we have obtained licenses, or expect to obtain licenses. However, with regard to other patents, we have determined in our judgment that:•Our activities, products and our product candidates do not infringe the patents;•the patents are not valid; or•we have identified and tested or are testing various modifications that we believe do not infringe the patents.Holders of these patents or other patents could sue us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling or developing our drugs. Legal disputes can be costly and time consuming to defend. If we cannot successfully defend against future actions or conflicts, if they arise, we may incur substantial legal costs and may be liable for damages, be required to obtain costly licenses or need to stop manufacturing, using or selling our products, which would adversely affect our business. We may seek to obtain a license prior to or during legal actions in order to reduce further costs and the risk of a court determination that our product infringes the third party's patents. A required license may be costly or may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A costly license, or inability to obtain a necessary license, could have a material adverse effect on our business.There can be no assurance that we would prevail in a patent infringement action or that we would be able to obtain a license to any third-party patent on commercially reasonable terms or any terms at all; successfully develop non-infringing alternatives on a timely basis; or license alternative non-infringing technology, if any exists, on commercially reasonable terms. Any impediment to our ability to research, develop, manufacture, use or sell Soliris, Strensiq, Kanuma or other products could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.55It is possible that we could lose market exclusivity for a product earlier than expected, which would harm our competitive position.In our industry, much of an innovative product’s commercial value is realized while it has market exclusivity. When market exclusivity expires and biosimilar or generic versions of the product are approved and marketed, there can be substantial decline in the innovative product’s sales.Market exclusivity for our products is based upon patent rights and certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. The scope of Soliris, Strensiq and Kanuma patent rights vary from country to country and are dependent on the availability of meaningful legal remedies in each country. The failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use, or loss of such rights, could be material to our business. In some countries, patent protections may not exist because certain countries did not historically offer the right to obtain specific types of patents or we did not file patents in those markets. Also, the patent environment is unpredictable and the validity and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. Absent relevant patent protection for a product, once regulatory exclusivity periods expire, biosimilar or generic versions of the product can be approved and marketed. Even prior to the expiration of regulatory exclusivity, a competitor could seek to obtain marketing approval by submitting its own clinical trial data.Risks Related to Our OperationsWe cannot guarantee that we will achieve our financial goals, including our ability to maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future.Until the quarter ended June 30, 2008, we had never been profitable since we were incorporated in January 1992. We have maintained profitability on a quarterly basis since the quarter ended June 30, 2008 and on an annual basis beginning with the year ended December 31, 2008. We believe that we formulate our annual operating budgets with reasonable assumptions and targets, however we cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient revenues or control expenses to achieve our financial goals, including continued profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability in any subsequent quarters, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. You should not consider our revenue growth in recent periods as indicative of our future performance. Our revenue in future periods could decline. We may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends or our business may be subject to factors beyond our control, which could harm our operations. Since we began our business, we have focused on research and development of product candidates. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in marketing and selling Soliris on a continued basis in countries or regions where we have obtained marketing approval, including the United States, Europe and Japan, and we do not know when we will have Soliris available for sale in territories where we have applied or will apply for marketing approval, if ever. We incurred significant debt to finance the acquisition of Synageva and as we advance our most robust pipeline in our history and prepare to launch our second and third products worldwide, we will have substantial expenses as we continue our research and development efforts, continue to conduct clinical trials and continue to develop manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities in the United States and abroad. The achievement of our financial goals, including the extent of our future profitability, depends on many factors, including our ability to successfully market Soliris in the United States, the European Union and Japan and other territories, our ability to obtain regulatory, pricing, coverage, and reimbursement approvals of our drug candidates, such as asfotase alfa, and for Soliris in additional territories and other indications, our ability to successfully market Soliris in additional territories, our ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize our drug candidates and our ability to successfully bring our other product candidates to the major commercial markets throughout the world. If our competitors get to the marketplace before we do, or with better or less expensive drugs, it may not be profitable to continue to produce Soliris and our product candidates.The FDA, EC and the MHLW granted orphan drug designation for Soliris in the treatment of PNH and the FDA and EC granted orphan drug designation for aHUS. Orphan drug status entitles Soliris to market exclusivity for a total of seven years in the United States and for ten years in the European Union and Japan. However, if a competitive product that is the same as or similar to Soliris, as defined under the applicable regulations, is shown to be clinically superior to Soliris in the treatment of PNH or aHUS, or if a competitive product is different from Soliris, as defined under the applicable regulations, the orphan drug exclusivity we have obtained may not block the approval of such competitive product. Several biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies throughout the world have programs to develop complement inhibitor therapies or have publicly announced their intentions to develop drugs which target the inflammatory effects of complement in the immune system. We are also aware of companies that have initiated or are planning to initiate clinical studies for the treatment of diseases that we are also targeting. Pharmaceutical companies have publicly announced intentions to establish or develop rare disease programs and these companies may introduce products that are competitive with ours. These and other companies, many of which have significantly greater resources than us, may develop, manufacture, and market better or cheaper drugs than our products or our product candidates. They may establish themselves in the marketplace before us for Soliris for other indications or for any of our other product candidates. Other pharmaceutical companies also compete with us to attract academic research institutions as 56drug development partners, including for licensing these institutions' proprietary technology. If our competitors successfully enter into such arrangements with academic institutions, we will be precluded from pursuing those unique opportunities and may not be able to find equivalent opportunities elsewhere.If we fail to recruit and retain personnel, we may not be able to implement our business strategy.We are highly dependent upon the efforts of our executive officers, and other key personnel in our commercial and technical organizations, including personnel from Synageva. There is intense competition in the biopharmaceutical industry for qualified commercial and technical personnel. Our business is specialized and global and we must attract and retain highly qualified individuals across many geographies. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for developing, manufacturing and commercializing our products and product candidates.If we fail to satisfy our debt service obligations or obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we may be unable to commercialize our products or continue or complete our product development. In June 2015, we acquired Synageva and used a substantial portion of our cash on hand and incurred $3.7 billion of debt under the terms of a senior secured credit facility to finance the acquisition. We also issued approximately issued approximately 26.1 million shares of common stock to finance the acquisition. In addition, the definitive agreements for the Enobia, Taligen and Orphatec acquisitions include contingent payments totaling $470,000, $367,000 and $39,000, respectively, if and when certain development and commercial milestones are achieved. Our consolidated indebtedness after giving effect to the Synageva acquisition is approximately $3.5 billion. Our substantially increased indebtedness, and the demands on our cash resources, following completion of the acquisition could have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and will increase our interest expense. Our indebtedness could also reduce funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes and may create competitive disadvantages for us relative to other companies with lower indebtedness levels. If we do not achieve the expected benefits and cost savings from the acquisition, or if the financial performance of the combined company does not meet current expectations, then our ability to service its indebtedness may be adversely impacted. We believe that revenues and collections from sales of Soliris, along with our existing cash and cash equivalents will provide sufficient capital to satisfy our debt service obligations and the contingent consideration required by the acquisitions, and to fund our operations and product development for at least 12 months. We may need to raise additional capital before or after that time to complete or continue the development or commercialization of our products and product candidates or for other purposes, such as additional acquisitions and strategic transactions. We are currently selling or preparing for the commercialization of our products, including our second and third products, in the U.S., the European Union, Japan, and several other territories, evaluating and preparing regulatory submissions for our products in several countries, and conducting, preparing or evaluating several clinical trials. Funding needs may shift between projects and potentially accelerate and increase as we continue launch and commercialization activities throughout the world and as we initiate or continue clinical trials for our product candidates. Additional financing could take the form of public or private debt or equity offerings, equity line facilities, bank loans, including additional borrowing under our existing credit facility, collaborative research and development arrangements with corporate partners and/or the sale or licensing of some of our property. The amount of capital we may need depends on many factors, including: •the cost necessary to sell, market and distribute our products;•the rate of new patient sales and drug utilization by treated patients;•the time and cost necessary to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for our products in multiple countries;•the ability to obtain and maintain reimbursement approvals and funding for our products and the time necessary to obtain such approvals and funding;•the time and cost necessary to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities outside the United States;•the time and cost necessary to purchase or to further develop manufacturing processes, arrange for contract manufacturing or build manufacturing facilities and obtain and maintain the necessary regulatory approvals for those facilities;•changes in applicable governmental regulatory policies or requests by regulatory agencies for additional information or data;•the progress, timing and scope of our research and development programs;•the progress, timing and scope of our preclinical studies and clinical trials;•the integration of the Synageva businesses; 57•any new collaborative, licensing or other commercial relationships that we may establish; and•the cost of any acquisition.We may not receive additional funding when we need it or funding may only be available on unfavorable terms. There can be no assurance that we will be able to access additional credit or the equity markets in order to finance our operations, grow our operations in any territory, or expand development programs for our product candidates, or that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in economies. If we cannot raise adequate funds to satisfy our capital requirements, we may have to delay, scale-back or eliminate our research and development activities or future operations. This could result in sharing revenues that we might otherwise retain for ourselves. Any of these actions would harm our business. We are significantly leveraged.In June 2015, we entered into a credit agreement (Credit Agreement) with a syndicate of banks in connection with the acquisition of Synageva. The Credit Agreement provides for a $3.5 billion term loan facility and a $500,000 revolving credit facility, which includes up to a $100 million sublimit for letters of credit and a $25 million sublimit for swingline loans. Our obligations under the credit facilities are unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, by certain of our existing foreign and domestic subsidiaries and secured by liens on certain of Alexion's and its subsidiaries' equity interests, subject to certain exceptions. All obligations of each borrower under the credit facilities, and the guarantees of those obligations, are secured, subject to certain exceptions, by substantially all of each borrower's assets and the assets of certain guarantors, including the pledge of the equity interests of certain of our subsidiaries and real estate located in Smithfield, Rhode Island, but excluding intellectual property and assets of certain foreign subsidiaries. We may elect that the loans under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to either a base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus, in each case, an applicable margin. The applicable margins on base rate loans range from 0.25% to 1.00% and the applicable margins on Eurodollar loans range from 1.25% to 2.00%, in each case depending upon our consolidated net leverage ratio (as calculated in accordance with the Credit Agreement).The credit facilities, and the contingent consideration payable in connection with our earlier acquisitions remain outstanding or available, and the degree to which we are leveraged could, among other things: •make it difficult for us to make payments on the credit facilities; •make it difficult for us to obtain financing for additional acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities or other purposes on favorable terms, if at all; •make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures; and •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including our manufacturing operations at ARIMF and in Ireland, the handling and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous wastes, such as medical and biological wastes, and emissions and discharges into the environment, such as air, soils and water sources. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating its property or locations to which wastes were sent from its facilities, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or necessarily caused, the contamination. Such obligations and liabilities, which to date have not been material, could have a material impact on our business and financial condition.We are seeking to expand our business through acquisitions and we may not realize the benefits of such acquisitions.Our business strategy includes expanding our products and capabilities. In addition to Synageva, we may seek other acquisitions or in-licensing of businesses or products to expand our products and capabilities. Acquisitions of new businesses or products and in-licensing of new products may involve numerous risks, including:•substantial cash expenditures;•potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities;•incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, some of which may be difficult or impossible to identify at the time of acquisition;•difficulties in assimilating the operations of the acquired companies;58•diverting our management's attention away from other business concerns;•risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience;•the potential loss of our key employees or key employees of the acquired companies; and•failure of any acquired businesses or products or in-licensed products to achieve the scientific, medical, commercial or other results anticipated.A substantial portion of our strategic efforts are focused on opportunities for rare disorders and life-saving therapies. The availability of such development opportunities is limited. We may not be able to identify opportunities that are acceptable to us or our shareholders. Several companies have publicly announced intentions to establish or develop rare disease programs. For these and other reasons, we may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we or our shareholders find acceptable, or at all. The development or expansion of our business, any acquired business or any acquired or in-licensed products may require a substantial capital investment by us. We may not have these necessary funds or they might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We may also seek to raise funds by selling shares of our capital stock, which could dilute current stockholders' ownership interest in our company, or securities convertible into our capital stock, which could dilute current stockholders' ownership interest in our company upon conversion.Even if we are able to successfully identify and complete acquisitions and other strategic transactions, we may not be able to integrate them or take full advantage of them. An acquisition or other strategic transaction may not result in short-term or long-term benefits to us. We may also incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business or an acquired or in-licensed product. To effectively manage our current and future potential growth, we must continue to effectively grow and manage our global employee base, and enhance our operational and financial processes. Supporting our growth strategy will require significant capital expenditures and management resources, including investments in research and development, sales and marketing, manufacturing and other areas of our operations. If we do not successfully manage our current growth and do not successfully execute our strategy, then our business and financial results may be adversely affected and we may incur asset impairment or restructuring charges.Our business could be affected by litigation, government investigations and enforcement actions.We operate in many jurisdictions in a highly regulated industry and we could be subject to litigation, government investigation and enforcement actions on a variety of matters in the United States or foreign jurisdictions, including, without limitation, intellectual property, regulatory, product liability, environmental, whistleblower, Qui Tam, false claims, privacy, anti-kickback, anti-bribery, securities, commercial, employment, and other claims and legal proceedings which may arise from conducting our business. As previously disclosed, in May 2015, we received a subpoena in connection with an investigation by the Enforcement Division of the SEC requesting information related to Alexion’s grant-making activities and compliance with the FCPA, as well as securities disclosures related to the recalls of specific lots of Soliris. Legal proceedings, government investigations, including the SEC investigation, and enforcement actions can be expensive and time consuming. An adverse outcome could result in significant damages awards, fines, penalties, exclusion from the federal healthcare programs, healthcare debarment, injunctive relief, product recalls, reputational damage and modifications of our business practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.The intended efficiency of our corporate structure depends on the application of the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate and we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities or our effective tax rate could change, which could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.As a company with international operations, we are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide tax liabilities. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome with respect to the taxes we owe may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements. If the Internal Revenue Service, or other taxing authority, disagrees with the positions we take, we could have additional tax liability, and this could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and regulations, changes in interpretations of tax laws, including pending tax law changes, changes in our manufacturing activities and changes in our future levels of research and development spending. We have designed our corporate structure, the manner in which we develop and use our intellectual property, and our intercompany transactions between our affiliates in a way that is intended to enhance our operational and financial efficiency and increase our overall profitability. We are also integrating the Synageva corporate structure into our own in a manner that is also intended to achieve similar efficiencies. The application of the tax laws and regulations of various countries in which we operate and to our global operations is subject to interpretation. We also must operate our business in a manner consistent with 59our corporate structure to realize such efficiencies. The tax authorities of the countries in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or for transfer pricing. If tax authorities determine that the manner in which we operate results in our business not achieving the intended tax consequences, our effective tax rate could increase and harm our financial position and results of operations.In addition, the United States government and other governments are considering and may adopt tax reform measures that significantly increase our worldwide tax liabilities.  The U.S. Congress, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development and other government agencies in countries where we and our affiliates operate have focused on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporation, including, for example, in the area of “base erosion and profit shifting,” where payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. We established operations in Ireland in 2013 and recently, Ireland tax authorities announced changes to the treatment of non-resident Irish entities. The changes are not expected to impact existing non-resident Irish entities, such as ours, until after December 31, 2020. These changes and other prospective changes in the United States and other countries in which we and our affiliates operate could increase our effective tax rate, and harm our financial position and results of operations.Our sales and operations are subject to the economic, political, legal and business conditions in the countries in which we do business, and our failure to operate successfully or adapt to changes in these conditions could cause our sales and operations to be limited or disrupted.Since 2007, we have significantly expanded our operations and expect to continue to do so in the future. Our operations in foreign countries subject us to the following additional risks:•fluctuations in currency exchange rates;•political or economic determinations that adversely impact pricing or reimbursement policies;•economic problems or political instability that disrupt health care payment systems;•difficulties or inability to obtain financing in markets;•unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements;•difficulties enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights;•changes in laws, regulations or enforcement practices with respect to our business, including without limitation laws relating to reimbursement, competition, pricing and sales and marketing of our products;•trade restrictions and restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities;•compliance with tax, employment and labor laws;•costs and difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified managers and employees to manage and operate the business in local jurisdictions;•costs and difficulties in managing and monitoring international operations; and•longer payment cycles.Our business and marketing methods are also subject to regulation by the governments of the countries in which we operate. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other countries prohibit companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have policies and procedures designed to help ensure that we and our representatives, including our employees, comply with such laws, however we cannot guarantee that these policies and procedures will protect us against liability under the FCPA or other anti-bribery laws for actions taken by our representatives. Although we conducted due diligence of Synageva's operations prior to the acquisition, we may discover or identify deficiencies or non-compliance with such laws as we complete the integration of the Synageva business and conduct operations. Failure to comply with the laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate could materially harm our business.Further, we conduct, or anticipate that we will conduct, a substantial portion of our business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in the normal course of our business. See also Risk Factor "Currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates could adversely affect our revenue growth, increase our costs and negatively affect our profitability." The credit and financial market conditions may aggravate certain risks affecting our business.Sales of our products are or will be dependent, in large part, on reimbursement from government health administration organizations and private and governmental third-party payers, and also co-payments from individual patients in certain situations. As a result of adverse credit and financial market conditions, and the overall financial climate, these governmental organizations and payers, and/or individuals, may reduce or delay initiation of treatment, may be unable to satisfy their 60reimbursement obligations, may delay payment or may seek to reduce reimbursement for our products, including Soliris, in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Soliris is approved for the treatment of patients with PNH and aHUS in the United States, the European Union and Japan and for the treatment of PNH in several other territories. If Soliris is approved in additional territories for PNH, aHUS, or for additional indications that are under clinical development, the reimbursement risks and uncertainties associated with adverse credit and financial market conditions may be exacerbated due to increases in the number of patients receiving Soliris that require reimbursement. Payment defaults by a government payer could require us to expense previously recorded revenue as uncollectible, and might cause us to end or restrict sales to patients in that country. Further, the risk of payment default by a government payer could require us to revise our revenue recognition policies in regard to that payer, causing revenue to be recorded only on a cash basis, and we may be required to end or restrict sales to patients in that country. We continue to monitor economic conditions, including volatility associated with U.S. and international economies, associated impacts on the financial markets and our business, and the sovereign debt issues in Europe. We may not be able to successfully mitigate or prevent our exposures to volatile economic and financial conditions and our failure to operate successfully or adapt to changes in these conditions could cause our sales and operations to be limited or disrupted or otherwise harm our business.Additionally, we rely upon third-parties for certain parts of our business, including Lonza, licensees, wholesale distributors of Soliris, contract clinical trial providers, contract manufacturers and other third-party suppliers and financial institutions. Because of the volatility in the financial markets, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance or satisfaction of commitments to us by these third parties which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates could adversely affect our revenue growth, increase our costs and negatively affect our profitability.We conduct, or anticipate that we will conduct, a substantial portion of our business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in the normal course of our business and we expect these exposures to increase during 2015 if the strengthening of the U.S. dollar continues. The exposures result from portions of our revenues, as well as the related receivables, and expenses that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the Euro, Japanese Yen, British Pound, Swiss Franc, and Russian Ruble. We manage our foreign currency transaction risk within specified guidelines through the use of derivatives. All of our derivative instruments are utilized for risk management purposes, and we do not use derivatives for speculative trading purposes. We enter into foreign exchange forward contracts, with durations of up to 60 months, to hedge exposures resulting from portions of our forecasted revenues, including intercompany revenues, that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The purpose of the hedges of revenue is to reduce the volatility of exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results and to increase the visibility of the foreign exchange impact on forecasted revenues. Further, we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts, with durations of approximately 30 days, designed to limit the balance sheet exposure of monetary assets and liabilities. We enter into these hedges to reduce the impact of fluctuating exchange rates on our operating results. Gains and losses on these hedge transactions are designed to offset gains and losses on underlying balance sheet exposures. While we attempt to hedge certain currency risks, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business have, in the past, caused foreign currency transaction gains and losses and have also impacted the amounts of revenues and expenses calculated in U.S. dollars and will likely do so in the future. Likewise, past currency fluctuations have at times resulted in foreign currency transaction gains, and there can be no assurance that these gains can be reproduced. Changes in healthcare law and implementing regulations, including those based on recently enacted legislation, as well as changes in healthcare policy and coverage and reimbursement of drug products may impact our business in ways that we cannot currently predict and these changes could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Governments in countries where we operate have adopted or have shown significant interest in pursuing legislative initiatives to reduce costs of health care. Any such government-adopted health care measures could adversely impact the pricing of Soliris or the amount of coverage and reimbursement available for Soliris from governmental agencies or other third-party payers. For example, the PPACA was adopted in the United States in March 2010. This law substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers in the U.S., and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. PPACA contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations, in some cases in ways we cannot currently predict. Changes that may affect our business include those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, rules regarding prescription drug benefits under health insurance exchanges, expansion of the 340B program, expansion of state Medicaid programs, and fraud and abuse enforcement. These changes will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. 61PPACA contains several provisions that have or could potentially impact our business. PPACA made significant changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. Effective March 23, 2010, rebate liability expanded from fee-for-service Medicaid utilization to include the utilization of Medicaid managed care organizations as well. With regard to the amount of the rebates owed, PPACA increased the minimum Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1% of the average manufacturer price for most innovator products; changed the calculation of the rebate for certain innovator products that qualify as line extensions of existing drugs; and capped the total rebate amount for innovator drugs at 100% of the average manufacturer price. In addition, PPACA and subsequent legislation changed the definition of average manufacturer price. Finally, PPACA requires pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded prescription drugs, such as Soliris, to pay a branded prescription drug fee to the federal government beginning in 2011. Each individual pharmaceutical manufacturer pays a prorated share of the branded prescription drug fee of $3.0 billion in 2014 (and set to increase in ensuing years), based on the dollar value of its branded prescription drug sales to certain federal programs identified in the law. Sales of "orphan drugs"-those designated under section 526 of the FDCA, like Soliris-are excluded from this fee as long as no non-orphan indications have been approved for the orphan drug.In 2012, CMS issued proposed regulations to implement the changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program under PPACA but has not yet issued final regulations. CMS is currently expected to release the final regulations in 2015. Moreover, in the future, Congress could enact legislation that further increases Medicaid drug rebates or other costs and charges associated with participating in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. The issuance of regulations and coverage expansion by various governmental agencies relating to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program has and will continue to increase our costs and the complexity of compliance, has been and will be time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Additional provisions of PPACA, some of which became effective in 2011, may negatively affect our revenues in the future. For example, as part of PPACA’s provisions closing a coverage gap that currently exists in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program (commonly known as the "donut hole"), we are required to provide a 50% discount on branded prescription drugs dispensed to beneficiaries within this donut hole.PPACA also expanded the Public Health Service’s 340B drug pricing discount program. The 340B pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B "ceiling price" for the manufacturer’s covered outpatient drugs. PPACA expanded the 340B program to include additional types of covered entities: certain free-standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, rural referral centers and sole community hospitals, each as defined by PPACA. PPACA exempts "orphan drugs"-those designated under section 526 of the FDCA, such as Soliris-from the ceiling price requirements for these newly-eligible entities. On July 21, 2014, the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) which administers the 340B program, issued an interpretive rule to implement the orphan drug exception which interprets the orphan drug exception narrowly. It exempts orphan drugs from the ceiling price requirements for the newly-eligible entities only when the orphan drug is used for its orphan indication. The newly-eligible entities are entitled to purchase orphan drugs at the ceiling price when the orphan drug is not used for its orphan indication. A manufacturer trade group has filed a lawsuit challenging the interpretive rule as inconsistent with the statutory language. That challenge remains ongoing. The uncertainty regarding how the statutory orphan drug exception will be applied will increase the complexity of compliance, will make compliance more time-consuming, and could negatively impact our results of operations. If HRSA’s narrow interpretation of the scope of the orphan drug exemption prevails, it could potentially negatively impact the price we are paid for Soliris by certain entities for some uses and increase the complexity of compliance with the 340B program. In addition, our industry may be affected by broader legislation addressing federal spending, including, for example, a sequester required by the Budget Control Act of 2011, Pub. L. No. 112-25, as amended by the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, Pub. L. 112-240, that took effect in April 2013 and was expended by the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, Pub. L. No. 113-67. Under the sequestration, Medicare payments for all items and services, including drugs and biologicals, have been reduced by 2%. This 2% reduction in Medicare payments affects all Parts of the Medicare program and could impact sales of Soliris. As another example, the governments of Germany and Spain each approved increases to mandatory rebates on the sales of pharmaceutical products. We expect that the implementation of current laws and policies, the amendment of those laws and policies in the future, as well as the adoption of new laws and policies, could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our ability to maintain or increase our product sales or successfully commercialize our product candidates, or could limit or eliminate our future spending on development projects. In many cases, these government initiatives, even if enacted into law, are subject to future rulemaking by regulatory agencies. Although we have evaluated these government initiatives and the impact on our business, we cannot know with certainty whether any such law, rule or regulation will adversely affect coverage and reimbursement of our products, or to what extent, until such laws, rules and regulations are promulgated, implemented and enforced. The announcement or adoption of regulatory or legislative proposals could delay or prevent our entry into new markets, affect our reimbursement or sales in the markets where we are already selling Soliris and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.62If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, Medicare, or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.Medicare is a U.S. federal government insurance program that covers individuals aged 65 years or older, certain younger individuals with certain disabilities, and individuals with End-Stage Renal Disease. The primary Medicare programs that may affect reimbursement for Soliris are Medicare Part B, which covers physician services and outpatient care, and Medicare Part D, which provides a voluntary outpatient prescription drug benefit. Medicare Part B provides limited coverage of certain outpatient drugs and biologicals that are reasonable and necessary for diagnosis or treatment of an illness or injury. Under Part B, reimbursement is based on a fixed percentage of the applicable product’s ASP. Manufacturers calculate ASP based on a statutory formula and must report ASP information to the CMS, the federal agency that administers Medicare and the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, on a quarterly basis. Medicaid is a government health insurance program for low-income children, families, pregnant women, and people with disabilities. It is jointly funded by the federal and state governments, and it is administered by individual states within parameters established by the federal government. Coverage and reimbursement for drugs and biologicals thus varies by state. Drugs and biologicals may be covered under the medical or pharmacy benefit. State Medicaid programs may impose utilization management controls, such as prior authorization, step therapy, or quantity limits on drugs and biologicals. Medicaid also includes the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, under which we are required to pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for quantities of Soliris that are dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state Medicaid program as a condition of having federal funds being made available to the states for Soliris under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. Those rebates are based on pricing data reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to CMS. These data include the average manufacturer price and the best price for Soliris. Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program also participate in the Public Health Service’s 340B drug pricing program in order for federal funds to be available for the manufacturer’s drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. The 340B pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B "ceiling price" for the manufacturer’s covered outpatient drugs. These 340B covered entities include a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the Public Health Service, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients. The 340B ceiling price is calculated using a statutory formula, which is based on the average manufacturer price and rebate amount for the covered outpatient drug as calculated under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. Pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and are often subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. The Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our submission to CMS of our current average manufacturer price and best price for the quarter. If we become aware that our reporting for a prior quarter was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, we are obligated to resubmit the corrected data for a period not to exceed twelve quarters from the quarter in which the data originally were due. Such restatements and recalculations increase our costs for complying with the laws and regulations governing the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. Any corrections to our rebate calculations could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. Price recalculations also may affect the ceiling price at which we are required to offer our products to certain covered entities, such as safety-net providers, under the 340B drug discount program.We are liable for errors associated with our submission of pricing data. In addition to retroactive rebates and the potential for 340B program refunds, if we are found to have knowingly submitted false average manufacturer price, ASP, or best price information to the government, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $100,000 per item of false information. If we are found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of our ASP, the Medicare statute provides for civil monetary penalties of up to $10,000 for each misrepresentation for each day in which the misrepresentation was applied. Our failure to submit monthly/quarterly average manufacturer price, ASP, and best price data on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty of $10,000 per day for each day the information is late beyond the due date. Such failure also could be grounds for CMS to terminate our Medicaid drug rebate agreement, pursuant to which we participate in the Medicaid program. In the event that CMS terminates our rebate agreement, federal payments may not be available under Medicaid or Medicare Part B for our covered outpatient drugs.In September 2010, CMS and the Office of Inspector General (OIG) indicated that they intend to pursue more aggressively those companies who fail to report these data to the government in a timely manner. Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. We cannot assure you that our submissions will not be found by CMS to be incomplete or incorrect.63Federal law requires that for a company to be eligible to have its products paid for with federal funds under the Medicaid program as well as to be purchased by certain federal agencies and grantees, it also must participate in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) pricing program. To participate, we are required to enter into an FSS contract with the VA, under which we must make our innovator "covered drugs" available to the "Big Four" federal agencies - the VA, the Department of Defense (DoD) the Public Health Service, and the Coast Guard - at pricing that is capped pursuant to a statutory federal ceiling price, or FCP, formula set forth in Section 603 of the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 (VHCA). The FCP is based on a weighted average non-federal average manufacturer price (Non-FAMP) which manufacturers are required to report on a quarterly and annual basis to the VA. If a company misstates Non-FAMPs or FCPs it must restate these figures. Pursuant to the VHCA, knowing provision of false information in connection with a Non-FAMP filing can subject a manufacturer to penalties of $100,000 for each item of false information.FSS contracts are federal procurement contracts that include standard government terms and conditions, separate pricing for each product, and extensive disclosure and certification requirements. All items on FSS contracts are subject to a standard FSS contract clause that requires FSS contract price reductions under certain circumstances where pricing is reduced to an agreed "tracking customer." Further, in addition to the "Big Four" agencies, all other federal agencies and some non-federal entities are authorized to access FSS contracts. FSS contractors are permitted to charge FSS purchasers other than the Big Four agencies "negotiated pricing" for covered drugs that is not capped by the FCP; instead, such pricing is negotiated based on a mandatory disclosure of the contractor’s commercial "most favored customer" pricing. We offer dual pricing on our FSS contract.In addition, pursuant to regulations issued by the DoD TRICARE Management Activity, now the Defense Health Agency, to implement Section 703 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, each of our covered drugs is listed on a Section 703 Agreement under which we have agreed to pay rebates on covered drug prescriptions dispensed to TRICARE beneficiaries by TRICARE network retail pharmacies. Companies are required to list their innovator products on Section 703 Agreements in order for those products to be eligible for DoD formulary inclusion. The formula for determining the rebate is established in the regulations and our Section 703 Agreement and is based on the difference between the annual Non-FAMP and the FCP (as described above, these price points are required to be calculated by us under the VHCA).If we overcharge the government in connection with our FSS contract or Section 703 Agreement, whether due to a misstated FCP or otherwise, we are required to refund the difference to the government. Failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in allegations against us under the FCA and other laws and regulations. Unexpected refunds to the government, and responding to a government investigation or enforcement action, would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.We may be subject to numerous and varying privacy and security laws, and our failure to comply could result in penalties and reputational damage.We are subject to laws and regulations covering data privacy and the protection of personal information including health information. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing focus on privacy and data protection issues which may affect our business. In the U.S., some of the laws that may apply include state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protections laws which impose requirements for the collection, use, disclosure and transmission of personal information. Each of these laws may be subject to varying interpretations by courts and government agencies, creating complex compliance issues for us. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations we could be subject to penalties or sanctions. Accordingly, we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (HIPAA) or for aiding and abetting the violation of HIPAA.In addition, the receipt of personal health information in connection with our clinical trial initiatives is subject to state and federal human subject protection laws. These laws could create liability for us if one of our research collaborators were to use or disclose research subject information without consent and in violation of applicable laws.Numerous other countries have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use and transmission of personal information as well. European Union member states and other jurisdictions have adopted data protection laws and regulations, which impose significant compliance obligations. For example, the EU Data Protection Directive, as implemented into national laws by the EU member states, imposes strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze, and transfer personal data, including health data from clinical trials and adverse event reporting. Data protection authorities from different EU member states may interpret the EU Data Protection Directive and national laws differently, which adds to the complexity of processing personal data in the EU, and guidance on implementation and compliance practices are often updated or otherwise revised. The EU Data Protection Directive prohibits the transfer of personal data to countries outside of the EU member states that are not considered by the European Commission to provide an adequate level of data protection. These countries include the United States. Any failure to comply with the rules arising from the EU Data Protection Directive and related national laws 64of European Union member states could lead to government enforcement actions and significant penalties against us, and adversely impact our operating resultsA proposal for an EU Data Protection Regulation, intended to replace the current EU Data Protection Directive, is currently under consideration. The EU Data Protection Regulation is expected to introduce new data protection requirements in the EU and substantial fines for breaches of the data protection rules. If the draft EU Data Protection Regulation is adopted in its current form, it may increase our responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms ensuring compliance with the new EU data protection rules.Security breaches, cyber-attacks, or other disruptions could expose us to liability and affect our business and reputation. We collect, store, and transmit sensitive information including intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information in connection with business operations. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Some of this information could be an attractive target of criminal attack by malicious third parties with a wide range of motives and expertise, including organized criminal groups, “hactivists,” patient groups, disgruntled current or former employees, and others. Hacker attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication, and despite our security measures, and those of Synageva, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to such attacks or may be breached due to employee error or malfeasance. We have implemented information security measures to protect patients’ personal information against the risk of inappropriate and unauthorized external use and disclosure. However, despite these measures, and due to the ever changing information cyber-threat landscape, we may be subject to data breaches through cyber-attacks perpetrated by individuals that attempt to compromise our security controls.  Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. if our systems become compromised, we may not promptly discover the intrusion. Like other companies in our industry, we have experienced attacks to our data and systems, including malware and computer viruses, and Synageva experienced similar attacks prior to the acquisition. If our systems were to fail or be disrupted for an extended period of time we could lose product sales and our revenue and reputation would suffer. In the event our systems were to be breached by an unauthorized third-party, they could potentially access confidential personal information, which could cause us to suffer reputational damage and loss of customer confidence. Such incidents would result in notification obligations to affected individuals and government agencies, legal claims or proceedings, and liability under federal and state laws that protect the privacy and security of personal information. Any one of these events could cause our business to be materially harmed and our results of operations would be adversely impacted.Risks Related to Our Common StockIf the trading price of our common stock continues to fluctuate in a wide range, our stockholders will have uncertainty with respect to an investment in our common stock.The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. Factors such as announcements of fluctuations in our or our competitors' operating results or clinical or scientific results, fluctuations in the trading prices or business prospects of our competitors and collaborators, changes in our prospects, particularly with respect to sales of Soliris, failure to resolve, delays in resolving or other developments with respect to the issues raised in the Warning Letter, acquisitions or other strategic transactions, and market conditions for biopharmaceutical stocks in general could have a significant impact on the future trading prices of our common stock. In particular, the trading price of the common stock of many biopharmaceutical companies, including ours, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have at times been unrelated to the operating performance of the companies whose stocks were affected. This is due to several factors, including general market conditions, sales of Soliris, the announcement of the results of our clinical trials or product development and the results of our efforts to obtain regulatory approval for our products. While we cannot predict our future performance, if our stock price continues to fluctuate in a wide range, an investment in our common stock may result in considerable uncertainty for an investor.Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law, provisions in our charter and bylaws could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult and may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current management. Because we are a Delaware corporation, the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Laws, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner.Our corporate charter and by-law provisions may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control that might be beneficial to us or our stockholders. Our bylaws provide that special meetings of our 65stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Secretary, or a majority of the Board of Directors, or upon the written request of stockholders who together own of record 50% of the outstanding stock of all classes entitled to vote at such meeting. Our bylaws also specify that the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the board of directors. Our charter does not include a provision for cumulative voting for directors, which may have enabled a minority stockholder holding a sufficient percentage of a class of shares to elect one or more directors. Under our charter, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by stockholders, to designate up to 5,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future.Our Board of Directors decided to accelerate the expiration of our shareholder rights plan after reviewing our governance profile and current practices, considering the vote results on a related non-binding shareholder proposal presented at our 2014 annual meeting of shareholders, and determining that it was in the best interests of Alexion and our shareholders. The shareholder rights plan expired in March 2015.Item 2.UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS.ISSUER PURCHASE OF EQUITY SECURITIES (amounts in thousands except per share amounts)The following table summarizes our common stock repurchase activity during the second quarter of 2015:PeriodTotal Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs Maximum Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the ProgramApril 1-30, 2015132 $178.23 132 $436,149May 1-31, 2015— $— — $1,000,000June 1-30, 2015— $— — $1,000,000Total132 $178.23 132  In November 2012, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. In May 2015, our Board of Directors increased the authorization of shares up to $1,000,000 for future purchases under the repurchase program, which superseded all prior repurchase programs. As previously disclosed, the Company did not repurchase any shares during the pendency of the Synageva acquisition. Item 5.OTHER INFORMATION.None.66Item 6.EXHIBITS.