Item 1A.Risk Factors.With the exception of the update provided below related to our legal and regulatory risk factors, there have been no material changes in the information provided in Item 1A of our Form 10-K Annual Report for 2011.Our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations. Future changes could require us to modify or curtail our investment offerings and business operations, or impact our expenses and profitability. For example, the Volcker Rule as currently proposed has led us to continue to evaluate whether it remains prudent to maintain our savings bank subsidiary in light of the potential restrictions the rule could place on our other business activities. Although our savings bank operation is not material to the operating results of the company, the final terms of the rule are not yet settled and uncertainty related to how it may apply to our funds and affiliates could negatively impact our ability to launch and seed new funds if we continue to maintain a savings bank affiliate. Additionally, aspects of the rule present the risk that liquidity in capital markets may be impacted, and it may be more difficult or costly to execute certain security transactions on behalf of our clients.Potential impacts of other current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements include, without limitation, the following:The Federal Reserve Board has adopted final regulations related to non-Bank Systemically Important Financial Institutions (“SIFIs”). It has been suggested by some that large mutual funds, particularly money market funds, should be designated as SIFIs. We do not believe that mutual funds should be deemed SIFIs. Further, we do not believe SIFI designation was intended for traditional asset management businesses. If, however, any T. Rowe Price fund or T. Rowe Price affiliate is deemed a SIFI, increased regulatory oversight would apply, which may include enhanced capital, liquidity, leverage, stress testing, resolution planning, and risk management requirements.There continues to be speculation that additional money market fund reform will be proposed. Proposed reforms could require funds to adopt floating NAVs or various capital buffers or redemption restrictions. Adoption of any such reforms could have a negative impact on the attractiveness of such funds to investors, or the willingness of the firm to sponsor such products.The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) has adopted certain amendments to its rules that would limit the ability of mutual funds and certain other products we sponsor to use commodities, futures, swaps and other derivatives without additional registration. Although we do not anticipate the need to register at this time, if our use of these products on behalf of client accounts increases so as to require registration, we would be subject to additional regulatory requirements and costs associated with registration.The SEC has proposed new municipal adviser registration rules as a result of Dodd-Frank. It is uncertain at this point what the full impact of these new rules will be on our business, but it is expected, if adopted as proposed, that certain affiliates would be subject to additional regulatory requirements and incur costs to ensure compliance with these requirements.The U.K. Financial Services Bill will fundamentally transform financial services regulation in the U.K. Although the new regulatory architecture will likely have an impact on the manner in which our U.K. subsidiary is supervised, we do not believe there will be substantive changes to the conduct of business rules to which we are subject. However, the operations of our U.K. subsidiary could be impacted to the extent the nature of our supervision or the substance of such rules change.There has been increased global regulatory focus on the manner in which intermediaries are paid for distribution of mutual funds. Changes to long-standing market practices related to fees or enhanced disclosure requirements may negatively impact sales of mutual funds by intermediaries, especially if such requirements are not applied to other investment products. Global regulations on OTC derivatives are evolving, including proposed rules under Dodd-Frank and European Market Infrastructure Regulation (“EMIR”) relating to central clearing counterparties, trade reporting and repositories. There is uncertainty related to the requirements under these new regulations and the exact manner in which they will impact current trading strategies for our clients.Page 17We are subject to various laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate outside the U.S., including pan-European Directives, such as the Alternative Investment Fund Management Directive (“AIFMD”). The AIFMD has not yet been implemented and interpretations of certain provisions are not yet final. Depending on such interpretations, the AIFMD may impact remuneration policies, capital requirements, and the manner in which affiliated entities provide services to funds covered by the Directive. We cannot predict the nature of future changes to the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business, nor the extent of the impacts that will result from current or future proposals. However, any such changes are likely to increase the costs of compliance and the complexity of our operations. They may also result in changes to our product or service offerings. The changing regulatory landscape may also impact a number of our service providers to the extent such providers alter their services or increase their fees which may impact our expenses or those of the products we offer.Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.