Item 1A.Risk Factors.With the exception of the following additions or updates to the list of current and proposed legal or regulatory requirements discussed in Item 1A of our Form 10-K Annual Report for 2012 there have been no material changes in the risk factors previously provided. As part of the debate in Washington, D.C. related to the economy and the U.S. deficit, there has been increasing focus on the framework of the U.S. retirement system. We could incur increased costs if new regulatory requirements are adopted since retirement plans are a significant part of our client base. Also, other types of retirement accounts invest in our mutual funds. In addition, changes to the current framework may impact our business in other ways. For example, proposals to reduce contributions to Individual Retirement Accounts and Defined Contribution plans for certain individuals, as well as potential changes to Defined Benefit plans, may result in increased plan terminations and reduce our opportunity to manage and service retirement assets. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) has proposed additional reforms to money market fund regulation. The proposal includes two basic alternatives that could be adopted alone or in combination. The first proposed alternative would require institutional non-government money market funds to operate with a floating net asset value (“NAV”) and the second proposed alternative would require non-government money market funds to impose liquidity fees and redemption gates under certain conditions. Regardless of whether either or both of these alternatives are adopted, the SEC proposal would institute other reforms for money market funds, including additional disclosure and reporting requirements, tightening of diversification requirements, and enhanced stress testing. Adoption of any such reforms could have a negative impact on the attractiveness of such funds to investors, or the willingness of the firm to sponsor such products. It would also subject us to additional regulatory requirements and costs to comply with any such requirements.As previously noted, we cannot predict the nature of future changes to the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business, nor the extent of the impacts that will result from current or future proposals. However, any such changes are likely to increase the costs of compliance and the complexity of our operations. They may also result in changes to our product or service offerings. The changing regulatory landscape may also impact a number of our service providers and to the extent such providers alter their services or increase their fees it may impact our expenses or those of the products we offer.Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.