Item 1A.Risk Factors.With the exception to the update provided below related to our legal and regulatory risk factors, there have been no material changes in the information provided in Item 1A of our Form 10-K Annual Report for 2013.On July 23, 2014, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted additional reforms regulating money market funds. The reforms will require institutional non-government money market funds to operate with a floating net asset value (NAV) and require all non-government money market funds to impose liquidity fees and redemption gates under certain conditions. Government and retail money market funds will continue using current pricing and accounting methods to seek to maintain a stable NAV. The SEC adopted other reforms for money market funds, including additional disclosure and reporting requirements, tightening of diversification requirements, and enhanced stress testing. These reforms will take effect over the next two years and could have a negative impact on the attractiveness of such funds to investors and also subject us to additional regulatory requirements and costs to comply with such requirements. However, we do not believe that these reforms, once effective, will have a material impact on our business.We are subject to various laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate outside the U.S., including pan-European Directives, such as the Alternative Investment Fund Management Directive (AIFMD). The AIFMD has come into effect and, although there are additional reporting and other requirements mandated by it, we do not anticipate any material impacts from its implementation. As previously noted, we cannot predict the nature of future changes to the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business, nor the extent of the impacts that will result from current or future proposals. However, any such changes are likely to increase the costs of compliance and the complexity of our operations. They may also result in changes to our product or service offerings. The changing regulatory landscape may also impact a number of our service providers and to the extent such providers alter their services or increase their fees it may impact our expenses or those of the products we offer.Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.