Item 1A.Risk Factors.With the exception of the following additions or updates to the Legal and Regulatory Risks discussed in Item 1A of our Form 10-K Annual Report for 2015, there have been no material changes in the risk factors previously provided. Legal and regulatory developments in the mutual fund and investment advisory industry could increase our regulatory burden, impose significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and cause a loss of, or impact the servicing of, our clients and fund shareholders.Our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations. New regulations present areas of uncertainty susceptible to alternative interpretations; regulators and prospective litigants may not agree with reasoned interpretations we adopt. Future changes could require us to modify or curtail our investment offerings and business operations, or impact our expenses and profitability. Additionally, some regulations may not directly apply to our business but may impact the capital markets, service providers or have other indirect effects on our ability to provide services to our clients.Potential impacts of current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements include, without limitation, the following:As part of the debate in Washington, D.C. related to the economy and the U.S. deficit, there has been increasing focus on the framework of the U.S. retirement system. We could incur increased costs if new regulatory requirements are adopted since retirement plans are a significant part of our client base and other types of retirement accounts invest in our mutual funds. In addition, changes to the current framework may impact our business in other ways. For example, proposals to reduce contributions to Individual Retirement Accounts and Defined Contribution plans for certain individuals, as well as potential changes to Defined Benefit plans, may result in increased plan terminations and reduce our opportunity to manage and service retirement assets. In April 2016, the U.S. Department of Labor finalized changes to definitions and rules related to fiduciaries. These changes will require modifications to how we interact with retirement customers and prospects, and may cause us to limit certain types of distribution or other business activities. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is considering its own fiduciary rule proposal. Any such rule may also have an impact on our business activities.The Federal Reserve Board has adopted final regulations related to non-bank Systemically Important Financial Institutions (SIFIs), and other jurisdictions are contemplating similar regulation. It has been suggested that large mutual funds, particularly money market funds, should be designated as SIFIs. We do not believe that mutual funds should be deemed SIFIs. Further, we do not believe SIFI designation was intended for traditional asset management businesses. However, if any T. Rowe Price fund or T. Rowe Price affiliate is deemed a SIFI, increased regulatory oversight would apply, which may include enhanced capital, liquidity, leverage, stress testing, resolution planning, and risk management requirements.Page 35On July 23, 2014, the SEC adopted additional reforms regulating money market funds that will become effective in October 2016. The reforms will require institutional non-government money market funds to operate with a floating net asset value (NAV) and require all non-government money market funds to impose liquidity fees and redemption gates under certain conditions. Government and retail money market funds will continue using current pricing and accounting methods to seek to maintain a stable NAV. The SEC adopted other reforms for money market funds, including additional disclosure and reporting requirements, tightening of diversification requirements, and enhanced stress testing. These reforms could have a negative impact on the attractiveness of such funds to investors and also subject us to additional regulatory requirements and costs to comply with such requirements.The Commodity Futures Trading Commission has adopted certain amendments to its rules that would limit the ability of mutual funds and certain other products we sponsor to use commodities, futures, swaps, and other derivatives without additional registration. If our use of these products on behalf of client accounts increases so as to require registration, we would be subject to additional regulatory requirements and costs associated with registration.There has been increased global regulatory focus on the manner in which intermediaries are paid for distribution of mutual funds. Changes to long-standing market practices related to fees or enhanced disclosure requirements may negatively impact sales of mutual funds by intermediaries, especially if such requirements are not applied to other investment products.Global regulations on OTC derivatives are evolving, including new and proposed regulations under The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and European Market Infrastructure Regulation relating to central clearing counterparties, trade reporting, and repositories. In addition, the SEC has adopted new regulations that will require mutual funds to adopt liquidity risk management programs with specific requirements for measuring and reporting the liquidity of fund holdings. It also has proposed regulations detailing new exposure limits and asset coverage requirements for investments in derivatives, as well as adopting derivatives risk management programs. There remains uncertainty related to various requirements under these regulations and the exact manner in which they will impact current trading strategies for our clients.The revised Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II Directive) and Regulation (MiFIR) (together “MiFID II”) will apply across the European Union (“EU”) and member states of the European Economic Area beginning on January 3, 2018, unless this date is extended. Implementation of MiFID II will significantly impact both the structure and operation of EU financial markets. Some of the main changes introduced under MiFID II include applying enhanced disclosure requirements, enhancing conduct of business and governance requirements, broadening the scope of pre and post trade transparency, increasing transaction reporting requirements, transforming the relationship between client commissions and research, and further regulation of trading venues. Compliance with MiFID II will increase our costs.We cannot predict the nature of future changes to the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business, nor the extent of the impacts that will result from current or future proposals. However, any such changes are likely to increase the costs of compliance and the complexity of our operations. They may also result in changes to our product or service offerings. The changing regulatory landscape may also impact a number of our service providers and, to the extent such providers alter their services or increase their fees, it may impact our expenses or those of the products we offer.United Kingdom Exit from European Union.We have a significant locally authorized and regulated presence in the United Kingdom (“UK”) to support our global investment management business. The ultimate impact of the UK exit (“Brexit”) from the European Union (“EU”), as a result of the referendum vote at the end of June 2016, on our business operations in the UK and Europe could vary depending on the details of the separation agreement. We are preparing for multiple scenarios, and remain committed to our clients, associates and business expansion across the region. Page 36Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.