Item 1A.Risk Factors.With the exception of the following additions or updates to the Legal and Regulatory Risks discussed in Item 1A of our Form 10-K Annual Report for 2016, there have been no material changes in the risk factors previously provided. Legal and regulatory developments in the mutual fund and investment advisory industry could increase our regulatory burden, impose significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and cause a loss of, or impact the servicing of, our clients and fund shareholders.Our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing laws and regulations. New laws and regulations present areas of uncertainty susceptible to alternative interpretations; regulators and prospective litigants may not agree with reasoned interpretations we adopt. Future changes could require us to modify or curtail our investment offerings and business operations, or impact our expenses and profitability. Additionally, some laws and regulations may not directly apply to our business but may impact the capital markets, service providers or have other indirect effects on our ability to provide services to our clients.Potential impacts of current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements include, without limitation, the following:The revised Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II Directive) and Regulation (MiFIR) (together “MiFID II”) will apply across the European Union (“EU”) and member states of the European Economic Area beginning on January 3, 2018, unless this date is extended. Implementation of MiFID II will significantly impact both the structure and operation of EU financial markets. Some of the main changes introduced under MiFID II include applying enhanced disclosure requirements, enhancing conduct of business and governance requirements, broadening the scope of pre and post trade transparency, increasing transaction reporting requirements, transforming the relationship between client commissions and research, and further regulation of trading venues. We expect that the implementation of MiFID II will increase our costs, though not materially, as we made the decision in the third quarter of 2017 that we would pay for third-party investment research used by our UK-based investment manager, T. Rowe Price International Ltd. Page 38We cannot predict the nature of future changes to the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business, nor the extent of the impacts that will result from current or future proposals. However, any such changes are likely to increase the costs of compliance and the complexity of our operations. They may also result in changes to our product or service offerings. The changing regulatory landscape may also impact a number of our service providers and, to the extent such providers alter their services or increase their fees, it may impact our expenses or those of the products we offer.We are subject to regulatory and governmental inquiries and civil litigation. An adverse outcome of any such proceeding could involve substantial financial penalties. From time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims. There also has been an increase in litigation and in regulatory investigations in the financial services industry in recent years, including customer claims, class action suits, and government actions alleging substantial monetary damages and penalties.We carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. We cannot be assured that our insurance will cover every liability and loss to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available at acceptable terms and fees. Certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. As our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or co-insurance liabilities, or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income.In 2016, we paid $166.2 million to compensate certain T. Rowe Price mutual funds, trusts, separately managed accounts, and subadvised clients (collectively, “Clients”) for the denial of their appraisal rights by the Delaware Chancery Court (Court) in connection with the 2013 leveraged buyout of Dell, Inc. (Dell). The Court ruled on May 11, 2016, that the Clients could not pursue an appraisal of any shares they held that were voted in favor of the Dell merger. The appraisal statute governing the transaction required the record holder to vote against or abstain from voting on the transaction in order to assert appraisal rights. After previously voting against prior transaction proposals, the voting instructions submitted on behalf of the Clients in connection with voting on the final proposed transaction were incorrectly submitted in favor of the transaction. On May 31, 2016, the Court determined that the fair value of Dell at the time of the merger was $17.62 per share, as opposed to the $13.75 price offered in the transaction. As a result, any shareholder perfecting appraisal rights is entitled to a payment at $17.62 per share plus statutory interest from the date the Dell transaction closed. The compensation to Clients was intended to make them whole for the voting discrepancy that resulted in the denial of their appraisal rights. On December 30, 2016, we signed a settlement agreement with our insurance carrier for insurance proceeds totaling $100 million related to this matter. We received the settlement in the first quarter of 2017. Additionally, we signed settlement agreements totaling $50 million in the first quarter of 2017. As of June 30, 2017, we have received the entire $150 million in related proceeds.In accordance with the compensation payment, the Clients agreed that in the event the findings made by the Court regarding the fair value of Dell or the amount of interest to be applied were modified by the Supreme Court of Delaware on appeal, T. Rowe Price and the Clients would make an appropriate adjustment between themselves, calculated in a manner that is consistent with the methodology used to compensate Clients. In December 2016, several parties, including Dell and the successful appraisal petitioners, filed appeals to the Delaware Supreme Court to challenge the Chancery Court’s valuation ruling. Our settlement agreements with our insurance carriers provide that if the fair value of Dell is reduced, we would work together to make appropriate adjustments. Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.