Item 1A: Risk Factors  The Company is subject to risks common to companies in the analytical instrument industry, including, but not limited to, the following:  Global economic conditions may decrease demand for the Company’s products and harm our financial results.  The Company is a global business that may be adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions. These changes in global economic conditions may affect the demand for the Company’s products and services and may result in a decline in sales in the future. There can be no assurance regarding demand for the Company’s products and services in the future.  Disruption in worldwide financial markets could adversely impact the Company’s access to capital and financial condition.  Financial markets in the U.S., Europe and Asia have experienced times of extreme disruption in recent years, including, among other things, sharp increases in the cost of new capital, credit rating downgrades and bailouts,    10    Table of Contents  severely diminished capital availability and severely reduced liquidity in money markets. Financial and banking institutions have also experienced disruptions, resulting in large asset write-downs, higher costs of capital, rating downgrades and reduced desire to lend money. There can be no assurance that there will not be future deterioration or prolonged disruption in financial markets or financial institutions. Any future deterioration or prolonged disruption in financial markets or financial institutions in which the Company participates may impair the Company’s ability to access its existing cash, utilize its existing syndicated bank credit facility, funded by such financial institutions, and impair its ability to access sources of new capital. The Company’s cost of any new capital raised and interest expense would increase if this were to occur.  The Company’s financial results are subject to changes in customer demand, which may decrease for a number of reasons, many beyond the Company’s control.  The demand for the Company’s products is dependent upon the size of the markets for its LC, LC-MS, thermal analysis, rheometry and calorimetry products; the timing and level of capital spending and expenditures of the Company’s customers; changes in governmental regulations, particularly affecting drug, food and drinking water testing; funding available to governmental, academic and research institutions; general economic conditions and the rate of economic growth in the Company’s major markets; and competitive considerations. The Company typically experiences an increase in sales in its fourth quarter, as a result of purchasing habits for capital goods by customers that tend to exhaust their spending budgets by calendar year end. There can be no assurance that the Company’s results of operations or financial condition will not be adversely impacted by a change in any of the factors listed above or the continuation of uncertain global economic conditions.  Additionally, the analytical instrument market may, from time to time, experience low sales growth. Approximately 53% and 52% of the Company’s net sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively, were to the worldwide pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, which may be periodically subject to unfavorable market conditions and consolidations. Unfavorable industry conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition.  Competitors may introduce more effective or less expensive products than the Company’s, which could result in decreased sales.  The analytical instrument market and, in particular, the portion related to the Company’s HPLC, UPLC, LC-MS, thermal analysis, rheometry and calorimetry product lines, is highly competitive and subject to rapid changes in technology. The Company encounters competition from several international instrument manufacturers and other companies in both domestic and foreign markets. Some competitors have instrument businesses that are generally more diversified than the Company’s business, but are typically less focused on the Company’s chosen markets. There can be no assurance that the Company’s competitors will not introduce more effective and less costly products than those of the Company or that the Company will be able to increase its sales and profitability from new product introductions. There can be no assurance that the Company’s sales and marketing forces will compete successfully against the Company’s competitors in the future.  The Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if the Company is unable to maintain a sufficient level of cash flow in the U.S.  The Company had approximately $1,178 million in debt and $1,539 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2012, the Company also had the ability to borrow an additional $428 million from its existing, committed credit facilities. Most of the Company’s debt is in the U.S. There is a substantial cash requirement in the U.S. to fund operations and capital expenditures, service debt interest obligations, finance potential acquisitions and continue authorized stock repurchase programs. A majority of the Company’s cash is generated from foreign operations, with $1,489 million of the Company’s cash held by foreign subsidiaries. The Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted if the Company is unable to maintain a sufficient level of cash flow in the U.S. to address these requirements through (1) cash from U.S. operations, (2) efficient, cost-effective and timely distribution of cash from non-U.S. subsidiaries, (3) the Company’s ability to access its existing cash and revolving credit facility and (4) other sources of capital obtained at an acceptable cost.    11    Table of Contents Debt covenants, and the Company’s failure to comply with them, could negatively impact the Company’s capital and financial results.  The Company’s debt is subject to restrictive debt covenants that limit the Company’s ability to engage in certain activities that could otherwise benefit the Company. These debt covenants include restrictions on the Company’s ability to enter into certain contracts or agreements that may limit the Company’s ability to make dividend or other payments, secure other indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates and consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of the Company’s assets. The Company is also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of the Company’s debt agreements. The Company’s ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on the Company’s future performance, which is subject to, but not limited to, prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond the Company’s control, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition.  Disruption of operations at the Company’s manufacturing facilities could harm the Company’s financial condition.  The Company manufactures LC instruments at facilities in Milford, Massachusetts and through a subcontractor in Singapore; chemistry separation columns at its facilities in Taunton, Massachusetts and Wexford, Ireland; MS products at its facilities in Manchester, England, Cheshire, England and Wexford, Ireland; thermal analysis and rheometry products at its facilities in New Castle, Delaware and other instruments and consumables at various other locations as a result of the Company’s acquisitions. Any prolonged disruption to the operations at any of these facilities, whether due to labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition.  The Company’s international operations may be negatively affected by foreign political and regulatory changes, related to either a specific country or a larger region. Currency and economic disruptions and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition.  Approximately 71% of the Company’s net sales in both 2012 and 2011 were outside of the United States and were primarily denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, the Company has considerable manufacturing operations in Ireland and the United Kingdom, as well as significant subcontractors located in Singapore. As a result, a significant portion of the Company’s sales and operations are subject to certain risks, including adverse developments in the foreign political, regulatory and economic environment, in particular, the financial difficulties and debt burden experienced by a number of European countries; the instability and possible dissolution of the Euro as a single currency; sudden movements in a country’s foreign exchange rates due to a change in a country’s sovereign risk profile or foreign exchange regulatory practices; tariffs and other trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and associated adverse operational, contractual and tax consequences.  Additionally, the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s net sales, cost of sales, operating expenses, interest, taxes and net income varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. Significant increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies could have a material adverse effect or benefit on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition.  The loss of key members of management could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations or financial condition.  The operation of the Company requires managerial and operational expertise. None of the Company’s key management employees have an employment contract with the Company and there can be no assurance that such individuals will remain with the Company. If, for any reason, such key personnel do not continue to be active in management, the Company’s results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected.    12    Table of Contents Failure to adequately protect intellectual property could have an adverse and material effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition.  The Company vigorously protects its intellectual property rights and seeks patent coverage on all developments that it regards as material and patentable. However, there can be no assurance that any patents held by the Company will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to the Company. Conversely, there could be successful claims against the Company by third-party patent holders with respect to certain Company products that may infringe the intellectual property rights of such third parties. The Company’s patents, including those licensed from others, expire on various dates. If the Company is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, it could have an adverse and material effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition.  The Company’s business would suffer if the Company were unable to acquire adequate sources of supply.  Most of the raw materials, components and supplies purchased by the Company are available from a number of different suppliers; however, a number of items are purchased from limited or single sources of supply and disruption of these sources could have, at a minimum, a temporary adverse effect on shipments and the financial results of the Company. A prolonged inability to obtain certain materials or components could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations and could result in damage to its relationships with its customers and, accordingly, adversely affect the Company’s business.  The Company’s sales would deteriorate if the Company’s outside contractors fail to provide necessary components or modules.  Certain components or modules of the Company’s LC and MS instruments are manufactured by long-standing outside contractors, including the manufacturing of LC instrument systems and related components by well-established contract manufacturing firms in Singapore. Disruptions of service by these outside contractors could have an adverse effect on the supply chain and the financial results of the Company. A prolonged inability to obtain these components or modules could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.  The Company’s financial results are subject to unexpected shifts in pre-tax income between tax jurisdictions and changing application of tax law.  The Company is subject to rates of income tax that range from 0% to in excess of 35% in various jurisdictions in which it conducts business. In addition, the Company typically generates a substantial portion of its income in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. Geographical shifts in income from previous quarters’ projections caused by factors including, but not limited to, changes in volume and product mix and fluctuations in foreign currency translation rates, could therefore have potentially significant favorable or unfavorable effects on the Company’s income tax expense, effective tax rate and results of operations. In addition, governments in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates implement changes to tax laws and regulations from time to time. Any changes in corporate income tax rates or regulations regarding transfer pricing or repatriation of dividends or capital, as well as changes in the interpretation of existing tax laws and regulations, in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates could adversely affect the Company’s cash flow and lead to increases in its overall tax burden, which would negatively affect the Company’s profitability.  Disruption or unforeseen problems with the security, maintenance or upgrade of the Company’s information systems could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations and financial condition.  The Company relies on its technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with suppliers, sell products and services, fulfill contract obligations, ship products, collect and make payments and otherwise conduct business. The Company’s technology infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from, but not limited to, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, unauthorized access to customer or employee data and other attempts to harm the Company’s systems. Any prolonged disruption to the Company’s technology infrastructure, at any of its facilities, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition.    13    Table of Contents The effects of climate change could harm the Company’s business.  The Company’s manufacturing processes for certain of its products involve the use of chemicals and other substances that are regulated under various international, federal, state and local laws governing the environment. In the event that any future climate change legislation would require that stricter standards be imposed by domestic or international environmental regulatory authorities with respect to the use and/or levels of possible emissions from such chemicals and/or other substances, the Company may be required to make certain changes and adaptations to its manufacturing processes. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on the financial statements of the Company.  Another potential effect of climate change is an increase in the severity of global weather conditions. The Company’s manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, United Kingdom and Ireland. In addition, the Company manufactures a growing percentage of its HPLC, UPLC and MS products in both Singapore and Wexford, Ireland. Severe weather conditions, including earthquakes, hurricanes and/or tsunamis, could potentially cause significant damage to the Company’s manufacturing facilities in each of these countries. The effects of such damage and the resulting disruption of manufacturing operations could have a material adverse impact on the financial results of the Company.  Compliance failures could harm the Company’s business.  The Company is subject to regulation by various federal, state and foreign governments and agencies in areas including, among others, health and safety, import/export, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and environmental laws and regulations. A portion of the Company’s operations are subject to regulation by the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies. These regulations are complex and govern an array of product activities, including design, development, labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. Any failure by the Company to comply with applicable governmental regulations could result in product recalls, the imposition of fines, restrictions on the Company’s ability to conduct or expand its operations or the cessation of all or a portion of its operations.  Some of the Company’s operations are subject to domestic and international laws and regulations with respect to the manufacturing, handling, use or sale of toxic or hazardous substances. This requires the Company to devote substantial resources to maintain compliance with those applicable laws and regulations. If the Company fails to comply with such requirements in the manufacturing or distribution of its products, it could face civil and/or criminal penalties and potentially be prohibited from distributing or selling such products until they are compliant.  Some of the Company’s products are also subject to the rules of certain industrial standards bodies, such as the International Standards Organization. The Company must comply with these rules, as well as those of other agencies, such as the United States Occupational Health and Safety Administration. Failure to comply with such rules could result in the loss of certification and/or the imposition of fines and penalties which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations.  The Company is subject to the rules of the SEC under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act requiring disclosure as to whether certain materials (tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten), known as conflict minerals, which may be contained in the Company’s products are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. These rules are likely to impose additional costs and may introduce new risks related to the Company’s ability to verify the origin of any conflict minerals contained in its products.      Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments