Item 1(a). Risk Factors. The statements in this section describe the known material risks to our business and should be considered carefully.Trends in oil and natural gas prices affect the level of exploration, development and production activity of our customers and the demand for our services and products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. Demand for our services and products is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies. The level of exploration, development and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, which historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile.Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of other economic factors that are beyond our control. Crude oil prices have fluctuated significantly since 2014, with West Texas Intermediate (WTI) oil spot prices declining from a high of $108 per barrel in June 2014 to a low of $26 per barrel in February 2016, and subsequently increasing to reach a high of $60 per barrel in December 2017. For more information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Business Environment and Results of Operations.” The reduction in oil and natural gas prices in 2015 through 2016 depressed levels of exploration, development and production activity and negatively impacted our operating results during those periods. Although commodity prices improved in 2017, average prices remained well below 2014 levels. Any prolonged reductions of commodity prices could once again have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition, including potential asset impairments and severance costs. Given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects, even the perception of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and natural gas companies can similarly cause them to reduce or defer major expenditures. We also have a small number of integrated projects that have remuneration tied to hydrocarbon production. Reduction in oil and gas prices can affect the overall returns for these projects, either lengthening the time until the expected returns are realized or by impairing the value of the asset.Factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include:-the level of supply and demand for oil and natural gas;-governmental regulations, including the policies of governments regarding the exploration for and production and development of their oil and natural gas reserves;-weather conditions and natural disasters;-worldwide political, military and economic conditions;-the ability or willingness of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to set and maintain oil production levels;-the level of oil production by non-OPEC countries;-oil refining capacity and shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas;-the cost of producing and delivering oil and natural gas; and-increased demand for alternative fuels and electric vehicles, including government initiatives to promote the use of renewable energy sources and public sentiment around alternatives to oil and gas. Our business is dependent on capital spending by our customers, and reductions in capital spending could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. Our business is directly affected by changes in capital expenditures by our customers, and reductions in their capital spending could reduce demand for our services and products and have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Some of the items that may impact our customer's capital spending include:-oil and natural gas prices, including volatility of oil and natural gas prices and expectations regarding future prices;-the inability of our customers to access capital on economically advantageous terms; -the consolidation of our customers;-customer personnel changes; and-adverse developments in the business or operations of our customers, including write-downs of reserves and borrowing base reductions under customer credit facilities.Many of our customers reduced capital spending in 2015 and 2016 as a result of decreases in commodity prices. While customer budgets generally increased in 2017 in response to improved market conditions, any significant reduction in 7commodity prices or a change in our customers’ expectations of future oil and natural gas prices, economic growth or the demand for oil and natural gas may result in capital budget reductions in the future.Our operations are subject to political and economic instability and risk of government actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. We are exposed to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries in which we operate. Our operations are subject to various risks unique to each country that could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. With respect to any particular country, these risks may include:-political and economic instability, including: •civil unrest, acts of terrorism, war and other armed conflict;•inflation; and•currency fluctuations, devaluations and conversion restrictions; and-governmental actions that may: •result in expropriation and nationalization of our assets in that country;•result in confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies;•limit or disrupt markets or our operations, restrict payments, or limit the movement of funds;•impose sanctions on our ability to conduct business with certain customers or persons;•result in the deprivation of contract rights; and•result in the inability to obtain or retain licenses required for operation.For example, due to the unsettled political conditions in many oil-producing countries, our operations, revenue and profits are subject to the adverse consequences of war, terrorism, civil unrest, strikes, currency controls and governmental actions. These and other risks described above could result in the loss of our personnel or assets, cause us to evacuate our personnel from certain countries, cause us to increase spending on security worldwide, cause us to cease operating in certain countries, disrupt financial and commercial markets, including the supply of and pricing for oil and natural gas, and generate greater political and economic instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. Areas where we operate that have significant risk include, but are not limited to: the Middle East, North Africa, Angola, Azerbaijan, Colombia, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Nigeria, Russia and Venezuela. In addition, any possible reprisals as a consequence of military or other action, such as acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition.Our operations are subject to cyber-attacks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. Our operations are increasingly dependent on digital technologies and services. We use these technologies for internal purposes, including data storage, processing and transmissions, as well as in our interactions with customers and suppliers. Digital technologies are subject to the risk of cyber-attacks. If our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks prove not to be sufficient, we could be adversely affected by, among other things: loss of or damage to intellectual property, proprietary or confidential information, or customer, supplier, or employee data; interruption of our business operations; and increased costs required to prevent, respond to, or mitigate cybersecurity attacks. These risks could harm our reputation and our relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other third parties, and may result in claims against us. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition.Our operations outside the United States require us to comply with a number of United States and international regulations, violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. Our operations outside the United States require us to comply with a number of United States and international regulations. For example, our operations in countries outside the United States are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which prohibits United States companies and their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity, or obtain any unfair advantage. Our activities create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by our employees, agents, or joint venture partners that could be in violation of anti-corruption laws, even though some of these parties are not subject to our control. We have internal control policies and procedures and have implemented training and compliance programs for our employees and agents with respect to the FCPA. However, we cannot assure that our policies, procedures and programs always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. We are also subject to the risks that our employees, joint venture partners and agents outside of the United States may fail to comply with other applicable laws. Allegations of violations of applicable anti-corruption laws have resulted and may in the future result in internal, independent, or government investigations. Violations of anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could 8have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. In addition, the shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects us to extensive trade laws and regulations. Our import activities are governed by the unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate. Moreover, many countries, including the United States, control the export and re-export of certain goods, services and technology and impose related export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Governments may also impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities, which may limit or prevent our conduct of business in certain jurisdictions. During 2014, the United States and European Union imposed sectoral sanctions directed at Russia’s oil and gas industry. Among other things, these sanctions restrict the provision of U.S. and EU goods, services and technology in support of exploration or production for deep water, Arctic offshore, or shale projects that have the potential to produce oil in Russia. These sanctions resulted in our winding down and ending work on two projects in Russia in 2014, and have prevented us from pursuing certain other projects in Russia. In 2017, the U.S. Government imposed additional sanctions against Russia’s oil and gas industry and certain Russian companies. Our ability to engage in certain future projects in Russia or involving certain Russian customers is dependent upon whether or not our involvement in such projects is restricted under U.S. or EU sanctions laws and the extent to which any of our current or prospective operations in Russia or with certain Russian customers may be subject to those laws. Those laws may change from time to time, and any expansion of sanctions against Russia’s oil and gas industry could further hinder our ability to do business in Russia or with certain Russian customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.During 2017, the U.S. Government imposed economic sanctions in Venezuela around certain financing transactions as further discussed below. The laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations can cause delays in shipments and unscheduled operational downtime. Moreover, any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from governmental contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges. In addition, investigations by governmental authorities and legal, social, economic and political issues in these countries could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. Our business in Venezuela subjects us to actions by the Venezuelan government, sanctions imposed or other actions by the U.S. and foreign governments, the risk of delayed payments and currency risks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. There are risks associated with our operations in Venezuela, which continues to experience significant political and economic turmoil. The political and economic conditions deteriorated in 2017, leading to uncertainty in the future business climate, the state of security and governance of the country. This environment increases the risk of civil unrest, armed conflicts, adverse actions by the government of Venezuela, including the possibility that the Venezuelan government could assume control over our operations and assets, and imposition of additional sanctions or other actions by the U.S. and foreign governments that may restrict our ability to continue operations or realize the value of our assets. In 2017, the U.S. Government announced sanctions directed at certain Venezuelan individuals and imposed additional economic sanctions around certain financing transactions in Venezuela. These sanctions prohibit dealings by our U.S. employees and entities in certain new debt issued by our primary customer in Venezuela or the Venezuelan government as well as dealings in existing Venezuelan government bonds. There can be no assurance that other sanctions affecting our business in Venezuela will not be imposed in the future that may have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate in Venezuela. We have continued to experience delays in collecting payments on our receivables from our primary customer in Venezuela, including recent delays in scheduled payments on our existing promissory note. In November 2017, several credit rating agencies downgraded this customer’s credit rating, some as low as a default level. As a result of this credit downgrade, delayed payments on our promissory note and accounts receivable, and deteriorating market conditions in Venezuela, we recognized an aggregate charge of $647 million during 2017, representing a fair market value adjustment on our promissory note and a full reserve against our other accounts receivable with this customer. On January 29, 2018, the Venezuelan government announced that it has changed the existing dual-rate foreign exchange system by eliminating the DIPRO foreign exchange rate. All future currency transactions will now be carried out at the DICOM floating rate. We are currently evaluating the impact that this change in foreign exchange system will have on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. This includes potential further write-downs of our net investment in Venezuela, which was approximately $202 million as of December 31, 2017. 9The future results of our Venezuelan operations will be affected by many factors, including the foreign currency exchange rate, actions of the Venezuelan government, general economic conditions such as continued inflation, existing or future sanctions, future customer spending and the ability of our primary customer to pay its debts. For further information, see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Business Environment and Results of Operations - International operations - Venezuela."Changes in, compliance with, or our failure to comply with laws in the countries in which we conduct business may negatively impact our ability to provide services in, make sales of equipment to and transfer personnel or equipment among some of those countries and could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. In the countries in which we conduct business, we are subject to multiple and, at times, inconsistent regulatory regimes, including those that govern our use of radioactive materials, explosives and chemicals in the course of our operations. Various national and international regulatory regimes govern the shipment of these items. Many countries, but not all, impose special controls upon the export and import of radioactive materials, explosives and chemicals. Our ability to do business is subject to maintaining required licenses and complying with these multiple regulatory requirements applicable to these special products. In addition, the various laws governing import and export of both products and technology apply to a wide range of services and products we offer. In turn, this can affect our employment practices of hiring people of different nationalities because these laws may prohibit or limit access to some products or technology by employees of various nationalities. Changes in, compliance with, or our failure to comply with these laws may negatively impact our ability to provide services in, make sales of equipment to and transfer personnel or equipment among some of the countries in which we operate and could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations.The adoption of any future federal, state, or local laws or implementing regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting or banning, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete natural gas and oil wells and could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. Various federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives have been or could be undertaken which could result in additional requirements or restrictions being imposed on hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, the EPA released the final results of its comprehensive research study on the potential adverse impacts that hydraulic fracturing may have on drinking water resources in December 2016. The EPA concluded that hydraulic fracturing activities can impact drinking water resources under some circumstances, including large volume spills and inadequate mechanical integrity of wells. The results of the EPA’s study could spur action towards federal or state legislation and regulation of hydraulic fracturing or similar production operations. At the same time, legislation and/or regulations have been adopted in many states that require additional disclosure regarding chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process but that generally include protections for proprietary information. Legislation and/or regulations are being considered at the state and local level that could impose further chemical disclosure or other regulatory requirements (such as restrictions on the use of certain types of chemicals or prohibitions on hydraulic fracturing operations in certain areas) that could affect our operations. Three states (New York, Maryland and Vermont) have banned the use of high volume hydraulic fracturing. Moreover, in light of concerns about seismic activity being triggered by the injection of produced waters into underground wells and hydraulic fracturing, certain regulators are also considering additional requirements related to seismic safety for hydraulic fracturing activities. Local jurisdictions in some states have adopted ordinances that restrict or in certain cases prohibit the use of hydraulic fracturing. In addition, governmental authorities in various foreign countries where we have provided or may provide hydraulic fracturing services have imposed or are considering imposing various restrictions or conditions that may affect hydraulic fracturing operations.The adoption of any future federal, state, local, or foreign laws or regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting or banning, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete natural gas and oil wells and could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition.Liabilities arising out of catastrophic well incidents, such as the Deepwater Horizon blowout in April 2010, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition.Catastrophic events can occur at well sites where we conduct our operations, including blow outs resulting in explosions, fires, personal injuries, property damage, pollution and regulatory responsibility. Generally, we rely on contractual indemnities, releases and limitations on liability with our customers, and liability insurance coverage, to protect us from potential liability related to such occurrences. However, we do not have these contractual provisions in all contracts, and even where we do, it is possible that the respective customer or insurer could seek to avoid or be financially unable to meet its obligations or a court may decline to enforce such provisions. Damages that are not indemnified or released could greatly exceed available insurance coverage and could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition.10Liability for cleanup costs, natural resource damages and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. We are exposed to claims under environmental requirements and, from time to time, such claims have been made against us. In the United States, environmental requirements and regulations typically impose strict liability. Strict liability means that in some situations we could be exposed to liability for cleanup costs, natural resource damages and other damages as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of prior operators or other third parties. Liability for damages arising as a result of environmental laws could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition.We are periodically notified of potential liabilities at federal and state superfund sites. These potential liabilities may arise from both historical Halliburton operations and the historical operations of companies that we have acquired. Our exposure at these sites may be materially impacted by unforeseen adverse developments both in the final remediation costs and with respect to the final allocation among the various parties involved at the sites. The relevant regulatory agency may bring suit against us for amounts in excess of what we have accrued and what we believe is our proportionate share of remediation costs at any superfund site. We also could be subject to third-party claims, including punitive damages, with respect to environmental matters for which we have been named as a potentially responsible party.Failure on our part to comply with, and the costs of compliance with, applicable health, safety and environmental requirements could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. Our business is subject to a variety of health, safety and environmental laws, rules and regulations in the United States and other countries, including those covering hazardous materials and requiring emission performance standards for facilities. For example, our well service operations routinely involve the handling of significant amounts of waste materials, some of which are classified as hazardous substances. We also store, transport and use radioactive and explosive materials in certain of our operations. Applicable regulatory requirements include those concerning:-the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oilfield waste and other waste materials;-the importation and use of radioactive materials;-the use of underground storage tanks; -the use of underground injection wells; and-the protection of worker safety both onshore and offshore.These and other requirements generally are becoming increasingly strict. The failure to comply with the requirements, many of which may be applied retroactively, may result in:-administrative, civil and criminal penalties;-revocation of permits to conduct business; and-corrective action orders, including orders to investigate and/or clean up contamination.Failure on our part to comply with applicable environmental requirements or costs arising from regulatory compliance, including compliance with changes in or expansion of applicable regulatory requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. Existing or future laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements related to greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business and may result in additional compliance obligations with respect to the release, capture and use of carbon dioxide that could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. Changes in environmental requirements related to greenhouse gases and climate change may negatively impact demand for our services. For example, oil and natural gas exploration and production may decline as a result of environmental requirements, including land use policies responsive to environmental concerns. State, national and international governments and agencies have been evaluating climate-related legislation and other regulatory initiatives that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, existing or future laws, regulations, treaties, or international agreements related to greenhouse gases and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, may reduce demand for oil and natural gas and could have a negative impact on our business. Likewise, such restrictions may result in additional compliance obligations with respect to the release, capture, sequestration and use of carbon dioxide that could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition.11Our business could be materially and adversely affected by severe or unseasonable weather where we have operations.Our business could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather, particularly in Canada, the Gulf of Mexico, Russia and the North Sea. Some experts believe global climate change could increase the frequency and severity of extreme weather conditions. Repercussions of severe or unseasonable weather conditions may include:-evacuation of personnel and curtailment of services;-weather-related damage to offshore drilling rigs resulting in suspension of operations;-weather-related damage to our facilities and project work sites;-inability to deliver materials to jobsites in accordance with contract schedules; -decreases in demand for oil and natural gas during unseasonably warm winters; and-loss of productivity.Changes in or interpretation of tax law and currency/repatriation control could impact the determination of our income tax liabilities for a tax year. We have operations in approximately 70 countries. Consequently, we are subject to the jurisdiction of a significant number of taxing authorities. The income earned in these various jurisdictions is taxed on differing bases, including net income actually earned, net income deemed earned and revenue-based tax withholding. The final determination of our income tax liabilities involves the interpretation of local tax laws, tax treaties and related authorities in each jurisdiction, as well as the significant use of estimates and assumptions regarding the scope of future operations and results achieved and the timing and nature of income earned and expenditures incurred. Changes in the operating environment, including changes in or interpretation of tax law and currency/repatriation controls, could impact the determination of our income tax liabilities for the year. Additionally, we are currently evaluating provisions of United States tax reform enacted in December 2017, which among other things, lowered the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and moved the country towards a territorial tax system with a one-time mandatory tax on previously deferred foreign earnings of foreign subsidiaries. In the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded a total provision to income taxes of $770 million related to our preliminary assessment of the net effects of tax reform. As we do not have all the necessary information to analyze all income tax effects of tax reform, this is a provisional amount which we believe represents a reasonable estimate of the accounting implications of this tax reform. We will continue to evaluate tax reform and adjust the provisional amounts as additional information is obtained. The ultimate impact of tax reform may differ from our provisional amounts due to changes in our interpretations and assumptions, as well as additional regulatory guidance that may be issued. We expect to complete our detailed analysis no later than the fourth quarter of 2018. For further information, see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.We are subject to foreign exchange risks and limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries or to repatriate assets from some countries. A sizable portion of our consolidated revenue and consolidated operating expenses is in foreign currencies. As a result, we are subject to significant risks, including:-foreign currency exchange risks resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the implementation of exchange controls; and-limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries.As an example, we conduct business in countries that have restricted or limited trading markets for their local currencies and restrict or limit cash repatriation. We may accumulate cash in those geographies, but we may be limited in our ability to convert our profits into United States dollars or to repatriate the profits from those countries. For further information, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Business Environment and Results of Operations" and Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.Our failure to protect our proprietary information and any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us could materially and adversely affect our competitive position. We rely on a variety of intellectual property rights that we use in our services and products. We may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future, and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services and products may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us could materially and adversely affect our competitive position.12If we are not able to design, develop and produce commercially competitive products and to implement commercially competitive services in a timely manner in response to changes in the market, customer requirements, competitive pressures and technology trends, our business and consolidated results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our intellectual property may be reduced. The market for our services and products is characterized by continual technological developments to provide better and more reliable performance and services. If we are not able to design, develop and produce commercially competitive products and to implement commercially competitive services in a timely manner in response to changes in the market, customer requirements, competitive pressures and technology trends, our business and consolidated results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our intellectual property may be reduced. Likewise, if our proprietary technologies, equipment, facilities, or work processes become obsolete, we may no longer be competitive, and our business and consolidated results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.If we lose one or more of our significant customers or if our customers delay paying or fail to pay a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. We depend on a limited number of significant customers. While none of these customers represented more than 10% of consolidated revenue in any period presented, the loss of one or more significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated results of operations.In most cases, we bill our customers for our services in arrears and are, therefore, subject to our customers delaying or failing to pay our invoices. In weak economic or commodity price environments, we may experience increased delays and failures due to, among other reasons, a reduction in our customers’ cash flow from operations and their access to the credit markets. If our customers delay paying or fail to pay us a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition.We sometimes provide integrated project management services in the form of long-term, fixed price contracts that may require us to assume additional risks associated with cost over-runs, operating cost inflation, labor availability and productivity, supplier and contractor pricing and performance, and potential claims for liquidated damages. We sometimes provide integrated project management services outside our normal discrete business in the form of long-term, fixed price contracts. Some of these contracts are required by our customers, primarily national oil companies (NOCs). These services include acting as project managers as well as service providers and may require us to assume additional risks associated with cost over-runs. These customers may provide us with inaccurate information in relation to their reserves, which is a subjective process that involves location and volume estimation, that may result in cost over-runs, delays and project losses. In addition, NOCs often operate in countries with unsettled political conditions, war, civil unrest, or other types of community issues. These issues may also result in cost over-runs, delays and project losses.Providing services on an integrated basis may also require us to assume additional risks associated with operating cost inflation, labor availability and productivity, supplier pricing and performance, and potential claims for liquidated damages. We rely on third-party subcontractors and equipment providers to assist us with the completion of these types of contracts. To the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials in a timely manner and on reasonable terms, our ability to complete a project in accordance with stated deadlines or at a profit may be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for these goods and services exceeds the amount we have estimated in bidding for fixed-price work, we could experience losses in the performance of these contracts. These delays and additional costs may be substantial, and we may be required to compensate our customers for these delays. This may reduce the profit to be realized or result in a loss on a project.Constraints in the supply of, prices for and availability of transportation of raw materials can have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. Raw materials essential to our business, such as proppants (primarily sand), hydrochloric acid, and gels, including guar gum, are normally readily available. Shortage of raw materials as a result of high levels of demand or loss of suppliers during market challenges can trigger constraints in the supply chain of those raw materials, particularly where we have a relationship with a single supplier for a particular resource. Many of the raw materials essential to our business require the use of rail, storage and trucking services to transport the materials to our jobsites. These services, particularly during times of high demand, may cause delays in the arrival of or otherwise constrain our supply of raw materials. These constraints could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. In addition, price increases imposed by our vendors for raw materials used in our business and the inability to pass these increases through to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. 13Our acquisitions, dispositions and investments may not result in anticipated benefits and may present risks not originally contemplated, which may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. We continually seek opportunities to maximize efficiency and value through various transactions, including purchases or sales of assets, businesses, investments, or joint venture interests. These transactions are intended to (but may not) result in the realization of savings, the creation of efficiencies, the offering of new products or services, the generation of cash or income, or the reduction of risk. Acquisition transactions may use cash on hand or be financed by additional borrowings or by the issuance of our common stock. These transactions may also affect our liquidity, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition.These transactions also involve risks, and we cannot ensure that:-any acquisitions we attempt will be completed on the terms announced, or at all; -any acquisitions would result in an increase in income or provide an adequate return of capital or other anticipated benefits;-any acquisitions would be successfully integrated into our operations and internal controls;-the due diligence conducted prior to an acquisition would uncover situations that could result in financial or legal exposure, including under the FCPA, or that we will appropriately quantify the exposure from known risks;-any disposition would not result in decreased earnings, revenue, or cash flow;-use of cash for acquisitions would not adversely affect our cash available for capital expenditures and other uses; or-any dispositions, investments, or acquisitions, including integration efforts, would not divert management resources.Actions of and disputes with our joint venture partners could have a material adverse effect on the business and results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and consolidated results of operations. We conduct some operations through joint ventures in which unaffiliated third parties may control the operations of the joint venture or we may share control. As with any joint venture arrangement, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions, the joint venture operating in a manner that is contrary to our preference or in failures to agree on major issues. We also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, default, or bankruptcy of our joint venture partners. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the business and results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and consolidated results of operations.Our ability to operate and our growth potential could be materially and adversely affected if we cannot attract, employ and retain technical personnel at a competitive cost. Many of the services that we provide and the products that we sell are complex and highly engineered and often must perform or be performed in harsh conditions. We believe that our success depends upon our ability to attract, employ and retain technical personnel with the ability to design, utilize and enhance these services and products. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. If either of these events were to occur, our cost structure could increase, our margins could decrease and any growth potential could be impaired.The loss or unavailability of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend greatly on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees to manage our operations. The loss or unavailability of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business.14Item 1(b). Unresolved Staff Comments