Item 1A. Risk Factors.Except as set forth below, there have been no material changes in or additions to the risk factors disclosed in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our 2011 Form 10-K.The terms upon which we will sell the assets comprising KMP’s FTC Natural Gas Pipelines disposal group are uncertain.As a condition to receiving antitrust approval from the FTC of our acquisition of EP, we have agreed to divest the assets comprising KMP’s FTC Natural Gas Pipelines disposal group within six months following the acquisition of EP. As a result, the price at which KMP ultimately agrees to sell these assets may be less than the price at which it would otherwise expect to sell them. Further, as a result of this agreement with the FTC, we reduced the disposal group’s net asset carrying value to its estimated fair value and recognized a $755 million loss in the first six months of 2012 on the remeasurement to fair value. However, the terms upon which we will sell these assets are subject to negotiation and agreement with an as-yet undetermined third party. As a result, our estimate of the fair value of the disposal group’s net assets may not reflect the price at which we ultimately agree to sell them.Our business, financial condition and operating results may be affected adversely by increased costs of capital or a reduction in the availability of credit.       Adverse changes to the availability, terms and cost of capital, interest rates or our credit ratings could cause our cost of doing business to increase by limiting our access to capital, limiting our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities and reducing our cash flows. Our credit ratings may be impacted by our leverage, liquidity, credit profile and potential transactions. Also, continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations on favorable terms. A significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, any reduction in our credit ratings could negatively impact the credit ratings of our subsidiaries, which could increase their cost of capital and negatively affect their business and operating results. Although the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities, our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our debt instruments, as well as the market value of our common units.80Kinder Morgan, Inc. Form 10-QConflicts of interest may arise between us, on the one hand and EPB and/or KMP on the other hand.Conflicts of interest may arise because of the relationships among EPB, KMP and us, as the indirect owner of their general partners. Our directors and officers have fiduciary duties to manage our business in a manner beneficial to us and our stockholders. Some of our directors also are directors and officers of EPB's general partner or KMP's general partner and the respective partnership agreements have contractual procedures to address conflicts. The resolution of any conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our stockholders. 81Kinder Morgan, Inc. Form 10-QItem 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.