Item 1A. Risk Factors and Part II, Item 8. Note 1 and Note 7 to consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2008.  Outlook - Global Market and Economic Conditions  In the United States and globally, recent market and economic conditions continue to be challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower economic growth during the first half of 2009. For our fiscal first nine months ended July 31, 2009, continued concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, bank failures and a declining real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the U.S. and the global economy. These conditions, combined with declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have contributed to substantial declines in capital markets and consumer confidence.  As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit continues to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers. Ongoing turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. If these market conditions do not improve, they may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to timely replace maturing liabilities, and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, resulting in potential adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. These conditions appear to have affected the markets for our products as consumers’ spending decreased resulting in slower than projected growth in 2009.  We believe that cash and cash equivalents on hand of $3.8 million plus cash generated by operating activities and borrowing capacity under our existing credit facilities will fund future operations, capital expenditures, cash dividends and small acquisitions. Over the past two fiscal years, the Company has made a significant investment in manufacturing capacity to support our silicone hydrogel and daily disposable contact lens product lines and improved capacity utilization. As a result, we plan to reduce overall capital expenditures related to manufacturing. Management believes that our projected outlook on sources of liquidity will be sufficient to meet our projected liquidity needs for the next 12 months. At July 31, 2009, we had $236.8 million of available credit.    52    Table of Contents THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition  and Results of Operations, Continued    Estimates and Critical Accounting Policies  Management estimates and judgments are an integral part of financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). We believe that the critical accounting policies listed below address the more significant estimates required of management when preparing our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. We consider an accounting estimate critical if changes in the estimate may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We believe that the accounting estimates employed are appropriate and resulting balances are reasonable; however, actual results could differ from the original estimates, requiring adjustment to these balances in future periods. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are:      •    Revenue recognition      •    Allowance for doubtful accounts      •    Net realizable value of inventory      •    Valuation of goodwill      •    Business combinations      •    Income taxes      •    Share-based compensation  During the fiscal first nine months of 2009, there were no significant changes in our estimates and critical accounting policies. Please refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2008, for a more complete discussion of our estimates and critical accounting policies.  New Accounting Pronouncements  On May 1, 2009, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 820-10-65, formerly FASB Staff Position (FSP) FAS 157-4, Determining Fair Value When Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly. ASC 820-10-65 provides guidance on how to determine the fair value of assets and liabilities when the volume and level of activity for the asset/liability has significantly decreased. It also provides guidance on identifying circumstances that indicate a transaction is not orderly. In addition, ASC 820-10-65 requires disclosure in interim and annual periods of the inputs and valuation techniques used to measure fair value and a discussion of changes in valuation techniques. The application of the ASC 820-10-65 did not have an effect on our consolidated net earnings, cash flows or financial position.  On May 1, 2009, the Company adopted ASC 825-10-65, formerly FSP FAS 107-1 and Accounting Principles Board Opinions No. 28-1, Interim Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial Instruments. ASC 825-10-65 requires interim disclosures regarding the fair values of     53    Table of Contents THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition  and Results of Operations, Concluded     financial instruments that are within the scope of ASC 825, formerly Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 107, Disclosures about the Fair Value of Financial Instruments. Additionally, ASC 825-10-65 requires disclosure of the methods and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value of financial instruments on an interim basis as well as changes of the methods and significant assumptions from prior periods. The application of ASC 825-10-65 did not have an effect on our consolidated net earnings, cash flows or financial position.  In May 2009, the FASB issued ASC 825, formerly SFAS No. 165, Subsequent Events, which established accounting principles and disclosure requirements for subsequent events. We adopted ASC 825 during the fiscal third quarter of 2009, and the adoption had no effect on our consolidated net earnings, cash flows or financial position.  In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 166, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140 (SFAS 166), which amends the derecognition guidance in FASB Statement No. 140 and eliminates the exemption from consolidation for qualifying special-purpose entities. The Company does not anticipate the adoption of SFAS 166, which is effective for the Company for the fiscal year beginning on November 1, 2010, will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (SFAS 167), which amends the consolidation guidance applicable to variable interest entities. The amendments will significantly affect the overall consolidation analysis under FASB Interpretation No. 46(R). The Company does not anticipate the adoption of SFAS 167, which is effective for the Company for the fiscal year beginning on November 1, 2010, will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  In June 2009, the FASB established that the “FASB Accounting Standards Codification” (Codification) will become the single official source of authoritative US GAAP (other than guidance issued by the SEC), superseding existing FASB, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, Emerging Issues Task Force and related accounting literature. Thereby, only one level of authoritative US GAAP will exist, and all other literature will be considered non-authoritative.  The Codification does not change US GAAP. The Codification becomes effective for interim and annual periods ending on or after September 15, 2009. The Codification is effective for the Company beginning in the fiscal fourth quarter of 2009, and we do not anticipate the adoption to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  Trademarks  Aquaform, Avaira, Biofinity, Biomedics and Proclear are registered trademarks of The Cooper Companies, Inc., its affiliates and/or subsidiaries. PC Technology is a trademark of The Cooper Companies, Inc., its affiliates and/or subsidiaries.    54    Table of Contents THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk  See “Risk Management” under Capital Resources and Liquidity in Item 2 of this report.  Item 4. Controls and Procedures  The Company has established and currently maintains disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that material information required to be disclosed in its reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the Securities and Exchange Commission and that any material information relating to the Company is recorded, processed, summarized and reported to its principal officers to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving desired control objectives. In reaching a reasonable level of assurance, management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.  In conjunction with the close of each fiscal quarter, the Company conducts a review and evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. The Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, based upon their evaluation as of July 31, 2009, the end of the fiscal quarter covered in this report, concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.  As of July 31, 2009, there has been no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the Company’s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.    55    Table of Contents PART II - OTHER INFORMATION  Item 1. Legal Proceedings  The Company is from time to time involved in various litigation and legal matters arising in the normal course of its business operations. By describing any particular matter, the Company does not intend to imply that it or its legal advisors have concluded or believe that the outcome of any of those particular matters is or is not likely to have a material adverse impact upon the Company’s consolidated financial position, cash flows or results of operations.  In re The Cooper Cos., Inc., Securities Litigation  On February 15, 2006, Alvin L. Levine filed a putative securities class action lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, Case No. SACV-06-169 CJC, against the Company, A. Thomas Bender, its Chairman of the Board and a director, Robert S. Weiss, its Chief Executive Officer and a director, and John D. Fruth, a former director. On May 19, 2006, the Court consolidated this action and two related actions under the heading In re Cooper Companies, Inc. Securities Litigation and selected a lead plaintiff and lead counsel pursuant to the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, 15 U.S.C. § 78u-4.  The lead plaintiff filed a consolidated complaint on July 31, 2006. The consolidated complaint was filed on behalf of all purchasers of the Company’s securities between July 28, 2004, and December 12, 2005, including persons who received Company securities in exchange for their shares of Ocular Sciences, Inc. (Ocular) in the January 2005 merger pursuant to which the Company acquired Ocular. In addition to the Company, Messrs. Bender, Weiss, and Fruth, the consolidated complaint named as defendants several of the Company’s other current officers and directors and former officers. On July 13, 2007, the Court granted Cooper’s motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint and granted the lead plaintiff leave to amend to attempt to state a valid claim.  On August 9, 2007, the lead plaintiff filed an amended consolidated complaint. In addition to the Company, the amended consolidated complaint names as defendants Messrs. Bender, Weiss, Fruth, Steven M. Neil, the Company’s former Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Gregory A. Fryling, CooperVision’s former President and Chief Operating Officer.  The amended consolidated complaint purports to allege violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 by, among other things, contending that the defendants made misstatements concerning the Biomedics® product line, sales force integration following the merger with Ocular, the impact of silicone hydrogel lenses and financial projections. The amended consolidated complaint also alleges that the Company improperly accounted for assets acquired in the Ocular merger by improperly allocating $100 million of acquired customer relationships and manufacturing technology to goodwill (which is not amortized against earnings) instead of to intangible assets other than goodwill (which are amortized against earnings), that the Company lacked appropriate internal controls and issued false and misleading Sarbanes-Oxley Act certifications.    56    Table of Contents On October 23, 2007, the Court granted in-part and denied in-part Cooper and the individual defendants’ motion to dismiss. The Court dismissed the claims relating to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act certifications and the Company’s accounting of assets acquired in the Ocular merger. The Court denied the motion as to the claims related to alleged false statements concerning the Biomedics product line, sales force integration, the impact of silicone hydrogel lenses and the Company’s financial projections. On November 28, 2007, the Court dismissed all claims against Mr. Fruth. On December 3, 2007, the Company and Messrs. Bender, Weiss, Neil and Fryling answered the amended consolidated complaint. On April 8, 2008, the Court granted a motion by Mr. Neil for judgment on the pleadings as to him. A February 17, 2010, trial date has been set and discovery has commenced. On January 6, 2009, the Court granted plaintiffs’ motion for class certification. The certified class consists of those persons who purchased or otherwise acquired Cooper common stock between July 28, 2004 and November 21, 2005. The Company intends to defend this matter vigorously.  In re Cooper Companies, Inc. Derivative Litigation  On March 17, 2006, Eben Brice filed a purported shareholder derivative complaint in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, Case No. 8:06-CV-00300-CJC-RNB, against several current and former officers and directors of the Company. The Company is named as a “nominal defendant.” Since the filing of the first purported shareholder derivative lawsuit, three similar purported shareholder derivative suits were filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. All four actions have been consolidated under the heading In re Cooper Companies, Inc. Derivative Litigation and the Court selected a lead plaintiff and lead counsel.  On September 11, 2006, plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint. The consolidated amended complaint names as defendants Messrs. Bender, Weiss, Fruth and Fryling. It also names as defendants current directors Michael Kalkstein, Moses Marx, Steven Rosenberg, Stanley Zinberg, Allan Rubenstein, and one former director. The Company is a nominal defendant. The complaint purports to allege causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, insider trading, breach of contract, and unjust enrichment, and largely repeats the allegations in the class action securities case, described above. Under the existing scheduling order, the Company has until September 12, 2009, to respond to the consolidated amended complaint.  In addition to the derivative action pending in federal court, three similar purported shareholder actions were filed in the Superior Court for the State of California for the County of Alameda. These actions have been consolidated under the heading In re Cooper Companies, Inc. Shareholder Derivative Litigation, Case No. RG06260748. A consolidated amended complaint was filed on September 18, 2006. The consolidated amended complaint names as defendants the same individuals that are the defendants in the federal derivative action. In addition, the complaint names Mr. Fryling, current officers Carol R. Kaufman, Paul L. Remmell, Jeffrey Allan McLean, and Nicholas J. Pichotta and former officers. The Company is a nominal defendant. On November 29, 2006, the Superior Court for the County of Alameda entered an order staying the consolidated action pending the resolution of the federal derivative action.    57    Table of Contents Both the state and federal derivative actions are derivative in nature and do not seek damages from the Company.  Item 1A. Risk Factors  There have been no material changes in the Company’s risk factors from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended October 31, 2008.    58    Table of Contents Item 6. Exhibits