Item 1A. Risk Factors and Note 1 and Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2010.  In connection with the normal management of our financial liabilities, we refinanced our syndicated Senior Unsecured Revolving Line of Credit due to mature on January 31, 2012, with a new Credit Agreement that provides for a multicurrency revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $750.0 million and a delayed draw term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $250.0 million, each of which, mature on January 12, 2016. On February 15, 2011, subsequent to the end of our fiscal first quarter, we redeemed all $339.0 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of our Senior Notes, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, from borrowings under the new Credit Agreement, including $250.0 million from the delayed draw term loan facility.  Item 4. Controls and Procedures  The Company has established and currently maintains disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that material information required to be disclosed in its reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the Securities and Exchange Commission and that any material information relating to the Company is recorded, processed, summarized and reported to its principal officers to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving desired control objectives. In reaching a reasonable level of assurance, management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.    47    Table of Contents In conjunction with the close of each fiscal quarter, the Company conducts a review and evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. The Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, based upon their evaluation as of January 31, 2011, the end of the fiscal quarter covered in this report, concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.  As of January 31, 2011, there has been no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the Company’s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.    48    Table of Contents PART II - OTHER INFORMATION  Item 1. Legal Proceedings  None.  Item 1A. Risk Factors  There have been no material changes in the Company’s risk factors from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended October 31, 2010.    49    Table of Contents Item 6. Exhibits