Item 1A. Risk Factors and Note 1 and Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2010 and Note 10 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended April 30, 2011.  In connection with the normal management of our financial liabilities, we refinanced our syndicated Senior Unsecured Revolving Line of Credit due to mature on January 31, 2012, with a new Credit Agreement that provides for a multicurrency revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $750.0 million and a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $250.0 million, each of which, mature on January 12, 2016. On February 15, 2011, we redeemed all $339.0 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of our Senior Notes, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, from borrowings under the new Credit Agreement, including $250.0 million from the term loan facility.  Item 4. Controls and Procedures  The Company has established and currently maintains disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that material information required to be disclosed in its reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the Securities and Exchange Commission and that any material information relating to the Company is recorded, processed, summarized and reported to its principal officers to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving desired control objectives. In reaching a reasonable level of assurance, management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.    39    Table of Contents In conjunction with the close of each fiscal quarter, the Company conducts a review and evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. The Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, based upon their evaluation as of April 30, 2011, the end of the fiscal quarter covered in this report, concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.  As of April 30, 2011, there has been no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the Company’s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.    40    Table of Contents PART II - OTHER INFORMATION  Item 1. Legal Proceedings  On April 28, 2011, Rembrandt Vision Technologies, L.P. filed a lawsuit against CooperVision, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that CooperVision infringes U.S. Patent No. 5,712,327 entitled “Soft Gas Permeable Contact Lens Having Improved Clinical Performance,” which was issued on January 28, 1998, to Sing-Hsiung Chang and Mei-Zyh Chang. The complaint alleges that CooperVision’s infringing conduct includes, but is not limited to, making, using, selling or offering to sell silicone hydrogel contact lenses. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, including treble damages, attorneys’ fees and costs and an injunction preventing any alleged infringement. CooperVision has not been served with the complaint nor has CooperVision filed any response to the complaint. No discovery has taken place, and no case management order has been entered. No trial date has been set. We intend to vigorously defend against this action.  On April 1, 2011, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued a Notice of Deficiency to the Company in connection with its audit of the Company’s income tax returns for the years 2005 and 2006. The Notice asserts that the Company is subject to additional taxes due to a proposed adjustment under the anti-deferral provisions of Subpart F of the Internal Revenue Code. If sustained, such taxes should be offset by the Company’s existing federal net operating loss carryforwards leaving a $1.2 million balance of proposed taxes owed. The Company intends to defend its positions taken in its income tax returns vigorously. However, if the IRS’s contentions were sustained, the Company’s existing federal net operating loss carryforwards could be materially reduced, which could result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s future net income.  Item 1A. Risk Factors  There have been no material changes in the Company’s risk factors from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended October 31, 2010.    41    Table of Contents Item 6. Exhibits