Item 1A. Risk Factors and Note 1 and Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017.On March 1, 2016, we entered into a syndicated Revolving Credit and Term Loan Agreement (2016 Credit Agreement) with Keybank as administrative agent. The agreement provides for a multicurrency revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion and a term loan facility in the aggregate principal amount of $830.0 million. The 2016 Credit Agreement replaced our previous credit agreement and funds from the new term loan were used to repay the outstanding amounts under the previous credit agreement, to partially repay our other outstanding term loans and for general corporate purposes. At January 31, 2018, we had $874.7 million available under the revolving credit facility and $830.0 million outstanding under the term loan. On November 1, 2017, in connection with the PARAGARD acquisition, we entered into a new five-year, $1.425 billion, senior unsecured term loan agreement by and among the Company, the lenders party thereto and DNB Bank ASA, New York Branch, as administrative agent (2017 Term Loan Agreement) which matures on November 1, 2022. The Company used part of the facility to fund the PARAGARD acquisition and used the remainder of the funds to partially repay outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit agreement.If interest rates were to increase or decrease by 1% or 100 basis points, quarterly interest expense would increase or decrease by approximately $6.0 million based on average debt outstanding for the first fiscal quarter of 2018.See Note 5. Debt for additional information.32Table of ContentsTHE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIESItem 4. Controls and ProceduresEvaluation of Disclosure Controls and ProceduresBased on management’s evaluation (with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (our Principal Executive Officer) and Chief Financial Officer (our Principal Financial Officer)), as of the end of the period covered by this report, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the “Exchange Act”)) are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Changes in Internal Control over Financial ReportingOn November 1, 2017, the Company acquired PARAGARD. Management is reviewing and evaluating its internal control procedures and the design of those control procedures related to the PARAGARD acquisition and assessing when it will complete an evaluation and review of PARAGARD's internal controls over financial reporting.Except as described above, there has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during our first quarter of fiscal 2018, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.33Table of ContentsTHE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIESPART II—OTHER INFORMATIONItem 1. Legal ProceedingsSince March 2015, over 50 putative class action complaints were filed by contact lens consumers alleging that contact lens manufacturers, in conjunction with their respective Unilateral Pricing Policy (UPP), conspired to reach agreements between each other and certain distributors and retailers regarding the prices at which certain contact lenses could be sold to consumers. The plaintiffs are seeking damages against CooperVision, Inc., other contact lens manufacturers, distributors and retailers, in various courts around the United States. In June 2015, all of the class action cases were consolidated and transferred to the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida. In August 2017, CooperVision entered into a settlement agreement with the plaintiffs, without any admission of liability, to settle all claims against CooperVision. The Company recorded a settlement accrual of $3.0 million in the third quarter fiscal ended July 31, 2017. The settlement remains subject to Court approval.The Company is involved in various lawsuits, claims and other legal matters from time to time that arise in the ordinary course of conducting business, including matters involving our products, intellectual property, supplier relationships, distributors, competitor relationships, employees and other matters. The Company does not believe that the ultimate resolution of these proceedings or claims pending against it could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. At each reporting period, the Company evaluates whether or not a potential loss amount or a potential range of loss is probable and reasonably estimable under ASC 450, Contingencies. Legal fees are expensed as incurred.Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisk factors describing the major risks to our business can be found under Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017. Except for the risk factors set forth below, there have been no material changes in our risk factors from those previously discussed in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year October 31, 2017.Tax ReformOn December 22, 2017, the U.S. President signed The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“2017 Act”) into law. Consistent with SEC guidance, the Company has made a reasonable estimate of the effects of the 2017 Act and recorded provisional income tax expense of $202.0 million in the financial statements this quarter. Compliance with the 2017 Act may require the collection of information not regularly produced within the Company, the use of estimates in our financial statements, and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for its provisions. As regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the 2017 Act, and as we gather more information and perform additional analysis, our results may differ from previous estimates and may materially affect our financial position. For additional information regarding the 2017 Act, see Part 1, Item 1, Note 7, Income Taxes, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.We manage our businesses utilizing complex integrated software and hardware information technology operating systems that are regularly maintained and upgraded; an interruption or disruption to these systems could disrupt our business or force us to expend excessive costs.We utilize complex integrated software and hardware operating systems, including enterprise resource planning and warehouse management systems, to support our business units and we have a continuous improvement strategy in place to keep our systems and overarching technology stable and in line with business needs and growth. Regular upgrades of our computer hardware and software revisions are typical and expected. We employ controlled change management methodologies to plan, test and execute all such system upgrades and improvements, and we believe that we assign adequate staffing and other resources to projects to ensure successful implementation. However, we cannot assure that our systems will meet our future business needs or that upgrades will operate as designed. We 34   cannot assure that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruptions in portions of our business in the course of our maintenance, support and/or upgrade of these systems.We are in the midst of a multiyear process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system at CooperVision. Implementing a new ERP system is not only costly but complex and difficult. Implementing a new ERP system can negatively affect not only financial accounting and reporting processes but also external commercial activities such as order receipt and product delivery. There can be no assurance that we will successfully implement our new ERP system or that we will avoid these and other negative impacts from our implementation efforts. The size and complexity of our information systems make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. Such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise. While we have invested in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent or quickly identify service interruptions or security breaches. Any such interruption or breach of our systems could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. We maintain cyber liability insurance; however, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our systems35Table of ContentsTHE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIESItem 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of ProceedsIssuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesThere was no share repurchase activity during the three-month period ended January 31, 2018.The Share Repurchase Program was approved by the Company’s Board of Directors in December 2011 (2012 Share Repurchase Program). The program as amended in December 2012 and December 2013 provides authorization for a total of $500.0 million. In March 2017, the program was amended and approved by the Company's Board of Directors for an increase of $500.0 million, providing authorization for a total of $1.0 billion. Purchases under the 2012 Share Repurchase Program may be made from time-to-time on the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions and are subject to a review of the circumstances in place at the time and will be made from time to time as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. This program has no expiration date and may be discontinued at any time.At January 31, 2018, approximately $563.5 million remained authorized under the 2012 Share Repurchase Program.36Table of ContentsTHE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIESItem 6. Exhibits