Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisk factors describing the major risks to our business can be found under Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017. Except for the risk factors set forth below, there have been no material changes in our risk factors from those previously discussed in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year October 31, 2017.Tax ReformOn December 22, 2017, the U.S. President signed The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“2017 Act”) into law. Consistent with SEC guidance, the Company has made a reasonable estimate of the effects of the 2017 Act and recorded provisional income tax expense of $202.0 million in the financial statements in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Compliance with the 2017 Act may require the collection of information not regularly produced within the Company, the use of estimates in our financial statements, and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for its provisions. As regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the 2017 Act, and as we gather more information and perform additional analysis, our results may differ from previous estimates and may materially affect our financial position. For additional information regarding the 2017 Act, see Note 6. Income Taxes.We manage our businesses utilizing complex integrated software and hardware information technology operating systems that are regularly maintained and upgraded; an interruption or disruption to these systems could disrupt our business or force us to expend excessive costs.We utilize complex integrated software and hardware operating systems, including enterprise resource planning and warehouse management systems, to support our business units and we have a continuous improvement strategy in place to keep our systems and overarching technology stable and in line with business needs and growth. Regular upgrades of our computer hardware and software revisions are typical and expected. We employ controlled change management methodologies to plan, test and execute all such system upgrades and improvements, and we believe that we assign adequate staffing and other resources to projects to ensure successful implementation. However, we cannot assure that our systems will meet our future business needs or that upgrades will operate as designed. We cannot assure that there 43   will not be associated excessive costs or disruptions in portions of our business in the course of our maintenance, support and/or upgrade of these systems.We are in the midst of a multiyear process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system at CooperVision. Implementing a new ERP system is not only costly but complex and difficult. Implementing a new ERP system can negatively affect not only financial accounting and reporting processes but also external commercial activities such as order receipt and product delivery. There can be no assurance that we will successfully implement our new ERP system or that we will avoid these and other negative impacts from our implementation efforts. The size and complexity of our information systems make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. Such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise. While we have invested in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent or quickly identify service interruptions or security breaches. Any such interruption or breach of our systems could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. We maintain cyber liability insurance; however, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our systems.44Table of ContentsTHE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIESItem 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of ProceedsIssuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesThere was no share repurchase activity during the three-month period ended April 30, 2018.The Share Repurchase Program was approved by the Company’s Board of Directors in December 2011 (2012 Share Repurchase Program). The program as amended in December 2012 and December 2013 provides authorization for a total of $500.0 million. In March 2017, the program was amended and approved by the Company's Board of Directors for an increase of $500.0 million, providing authorization for a total of $1.0 billion. Purchases under the 2012 Share Repurchase Program may be made from time-to-time on the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions and are subject to a review of the circumstances in place at the time and will be made from time to time as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. This program has no expiration date and may be discontinued at any time.At April 30, 2018, approximately $563.5 million remained authorized under the 2012 Share Repurchase Program.45Table of ContentsTHE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIESItem 6. Exhibits