ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS AND THETRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCKYou should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, in which case you could lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information in this filing, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial also may become important factors that affect our Company.Reductions in funding or changes to eligibility requirements for government sponsored healthcare programs in which we participate could substantially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.The majority of our revenues come from government subsidized healthcare programs including Medicaid, Medicare, CHIP, LTC, ABD, Foster Care and Health Insurance Marketplace premiums. The base premium rate paid for each program differs, depending on a combination of factors such as defined upper payment limits, a member’s health status, age, gender, county or region and benefit mix. Since Medicaid was created in 1965, the federal government and the states have shared the costs, with the federal share currently averaging around 57%.Future levels of funding and premium rates may be affected by continuing government efforts to contain healthcare costs and may further be affected by state and federal budgetary constraints. Governments periodically consider reducing or reallocating the amount of money they spend for Medicaid, Medicare, CHIP, LTC, ABD and Foster Care. Adverse economic conditions may continue to put pressures on state budgets as tax and other state revenues decrease while the population that is eligible to participate in these programs increases, creating more need for funding. We anticipate this will require government agencies to find funding alternatives, which may result in reductions in funding for programs, contraction of covered benefits, and limited or no premium rate increases or premium rate decreases. A reduction (or less than expected increase), a protracted delay, or a change in allocation methodology in government funding for these programs, as well as termination of the contract for the convenience of the government, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Additionally, changes in these programs could reduce the number of persons enrolled in or eligible for these programs or increase our administrative or healthcare costs under these programs. Recent legislation generally requires that eligibility levels be maintained, but this could cause states to reduce reimbursement or reduce benefits in order for states to afford to maintain eligibility levels. If any state in which we operate were to decrease premiums paid to us or pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.Lastly, if a federal government shutdown were to occur for a prolonged period of time, federal government payment obligations, including its obligations under Medicaid, Medicare, CHIP, LTC, ABD, Foster Care and the new Health Insurance Marketplaces, may be delayed. If the federal government fails to make payments under these programs on a timely basis, our business could suffer, and our financial position, results of operations or cash flows may be materially affected. Failure to accurately estimate and price our medical expenses or effectively manage our medical costs or related administrative costs could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.Our profitability, to a significant degree, depends on our ability to estimate and effectively manage expenses related to health benefits through our ability to contract favorably with hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers. For example, our Medicaid revenue is often based on bids submitted before the start of the initial contract year. If our actual medical expense exceeds our estimates, our health benefits ratio, or our expenses related to medical services as a percentage of premium revenue, would increase and our profits would decline. Because of the narrow margins of our health plan business, relatively small changes in our health benefits ratio can create significant changes in our financial results. Changes in healthcare regulations and practices, the level of utilization of healthcare services, hospital and pharmaceutical costs, major epidemics or pandemics, new medical technologies, pharmaceutical compounds and other external factors, including general economic conditions such as inflation and unemployment levels, are beyond our control and could reduce our ability to accurately predict and effectively control the costs of providing health benefits.32Table of ContentsOur medical expense includes claims reported but not paid, estimates for claims incurred but not reported, and estimates for the costs necessary to process unpaid claims at the end of each period. Our development of the medical claims liability estimate is a continuous process which we monitor and refine on a monthly basis as claims receipts and payment information as well as inpatient acuity information becomes available. As more complete information becomes available, we adjust the amount of the estimate, and include the changes in estimates in medical expense in the period in which the changes are identified. However, we still cannot be sure that our medical claims liability estimate is adequate or that adjustments to the estimate will not unfavorably impact our results of operations.Additionally, when we commence operations in a new state, region or product, we have limited information with which to estimate our medical claims liability. For a period of time after the inception of the new business, we base our estimates on state-provided historical actuarial data and limited actual incurred and received claims and inpatient acuity information. The addition of new categories of individuals who are eligible under new legislation may pose the same difficulty in estimating our medical claims liability. Similarly, we may face difficulty in estimating our medical claims liability in 2015 for the relatively new and evolving Health Insurance Marketplaces. From time to time in the past, our actual results have varied from our estimates, particularly in times of significant changes in the number of our members. If it is determined that our estimates are significantly different than actual results, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. In addition, if there is a significant delay in our receipt of premiums, our business operations, cash flows, or earnings could be negatively impacted. The implementation of the Health Reform Legislation and other reforms could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the accompanying Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, collectively referred to as the Affordable Care Act (ACA), were enacted. While the constitutionality of the ACA was generally upheld by the Supreme Court in 2012, the Court determined that states could not be required to expand Medicaid and risk losing all federal money for their existing Medicaid programs.Under the ACA, Medicaid coverage was expanded to all individuals under age 65 with incomes up to 138% of the federal poverty level beginning January 1, 2014, subject to each states' election. The federal government will pay the entire costs for Medicaid coverage for newly eligible beneficiaries for three years (2014 through 2016). Beginning in 2017, the federal share begins to decline, ending at 90% for 2020 and subsequent years. As of September 1, 2015, 31 states and the District of Columbia have expanded Medicaid eligibility, and additional states continue to discuss expansion. The ACA also maintained CHIP eligibility standards through September 2019.The ACA required the establishment of Health Insurance Marketplaces for individuals and small employers to purchase health insurance coverage commencing in January 2014. Open enrollment for coverage in 2015 began on November 15, 2014 and continued until February 15, 2015. The ACA required insurers participating on the Health Insurance Marketplaces to offer a minimum level of benefits and included guidelines on setting premium rates and coverage limitations. Our ability to adequately price products offered in the Health Insurance Marketplaces may have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flow. We may be adversely selected by individuals who will have a higher acuity level than the anticipated pool of participants. In addition, the risk corridor, reinsurance and risk adjustment ("three Rs") provisions of the ACA established to reduce risk for insurers may not be effective in appropriately mitigating the financial risks related to the Marketplace product. Further, the reinsurance and risk corridor components may not be adequately funded. Any variation from our expectations regarding acuity, enrollment levels, adverse selection, the three Rs, or other assumptions utilized in setting adequate premium rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has stated that it will consider a limited number of premium assistance demonstration proposals from States that want to privatize Medicaid expansion. States must provide a choice between at least two qualified health plans and offer very similar benefits as those available in the newly created Health Insurance Marketplaces. Arkansas became the first state to obtain federal approval to use Medicaid funding to purchase private insurance for low-income residents and we began operations under the program beginning January 1, 2014.33Table of ContentsThe ACA imposes an annual insurance industry assessment of $8.0 billion starting in 2014, and $11.3 billion in each of 2015 and 2016, with increasing annual amounts thereafter. Such assessments are not deductible for federal and most state income tax purposes. The fee will be allocated based on health insurers' premium revenues in the previous year. Each health insurer's fee is calculated by multiplying its market share by the annual fee. Market share is based on commercial, Medicare, and Medicaid premium revenue. Not-for-profit insurers may have a competitive advantage since they are exempt from paying the fee if they receive at least 80% of their premium revenue from Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP, and other not-for-profit insurers are allowed to exclude 50% of their premium revenue from the fee calculation. If this federal premium assessment is imposed as enacted, and if we are not reimbursed by the states for the cost of the federal premium assessment (including the associated tax impact), or if we are unable to otherwise adjust our business model to address this new assessment, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be materially adversely affected.There are numerous steps required to implement the legislation, including the promulgation of a substantial number of new and potentially more onerous federal regulations. Further, various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level. Because of the unsettled nature of these reforms and numerous steps required to implement them, we cannot predict what additional health insurance requirements will be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect that any future legislation or regulation will have on our business or our growth opportunities. Although we believe the legislation may provide us with significant opportunities to grow our business, the enacted reforms, as well as future regulations and legislative changes, may in fact have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or liquidity. If we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives with respect to the implementation of healthcare reform, or do not do so as effectively as our competitors, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected.Our business activities are highly regulated and new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could force us to change how we operate and could harm our business. Our business is extensively regulated by the states in which we operate and by the federal government. In addition, the managed care industry has received negative publicity that has led to increased legislation, regulation, review of industry practices and private litigation in the commercial sector. In each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, we are regulated by the relevant insurance, health and/or human services departments that oversee the activities of managed care organizations providing or arranging to provide services to Medicaid, Medicare and Health Insurance Marketplace enrollees. For example, our health plan subsidiaries, as well as our applicable specialty companies, must comply with minimum statutory capital and other financial solvency requirements, such as deposit and surplus requirements. The frequent enactment of, changes to, or interpretations of laws and regulations could, among other things: force us to restructure our relationships with providers within our network; require us to implement additional or different programs and systems; restrict revenue and enrollment growth; increase our healthcare and administrative costs; impose additional capital and surplus requirements; and increase or change our liability to members in the event of malpractice by our contracted providers. In addition, changes in political party or administrations at the state, federal or country level may change the attitude towards healthcare programs. Additionally, the taxes and fees paid to federal, state and local governments may increase due to several factors, including: enactment of, changes to, or interpretations of tax laws and regulations, audits by governmental authorities, geographic expansions into higher taxing jurisdictions and the effect of expansions into international markets.Our contracts with states may require us to maintain a minimum health benefits ratio (HBR) or may require us to share profits in excess of certain levels. In certain circumstances, our plans may be required to return premium back to the state in the event profits exceed established levels or HBR does not meet the minimum requirement. Other states may require us to meet certain performance and quality metrics in order to maintain our contract or receive additional or full contractual revenue. 34Table of ContentsThe governmental healthcare programs in which we participate are subject to the satisfaction of certain regulations and performance standards. For example, under Health Reform Legislation, Congress authorized CMS and the states to implement managed care demonstration programs to serve dually eligible beneficiaries to improve the coordination of their care. Participation in these demonstration programs is subject to CMS approval and the satisfaction of conditions to participation, including meeting certain performance requirements. Our inability to improve or maintain adequate quality scores and star ratings to meet government performance requirements or to match the performance of our competitors could result in limitations to our participation in or exclusion from these or other government programs. Specifically, several of our Medicaid contracts require us to maintain a Medicare health plan. Although we strive to comply with all existing regulations and to meet performance standards applicable to our business, failure to meet these requirements could result in financial fines and penalties. Also, states may not allow us to continue to participate in their government programs, or we may fail to win procurements to participate in such programs which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, as a result of the expansion of our businesses and operations conducted in foreign countries, we face political, economic, legal, compliance, regulatory, operational and other risks and exposures that are unique and vary by jurisdiction. These foreign regulatory requirements with respect to, among other items, environmental, tax, licensing, intellectual property, privacy, data protection, investment, capital, management control, labor relations, and fraud and corruption regulations are different than those faced by our domestic businesses. In addition, we are subject to U.S. laws that regulate the conduct and activities of U.S.-based businesses operating abroad, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Our failure to comply with laws and regulations governing our conduct outside the United States or to successfully navigate international regulatory regimes that apply to us could adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our businesses providing pharmacy benefit management (PBM) and specialty pharmacy services face regulatory and other risks and uncertainties which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.We provide PBM and specialty pharmacy services through our US Script and AcariaHealth businesses. Each business is subject to federal and state laws that govern the relationships of the business with pharmaceutical manufacturers, physicians, pharmacies, customers and consumers. They also conduct business as a mail order pharmacy and specialty pharmacy, which subjects them to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. In addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could materially and adversely affect current industry practices, including the receipt or disclosure of rebates from pharmaceutical companies, the development and use of formularies, and the use of average wholesale prices. Our PBM and specialty pharmacy businesses would be materially and adversely affected by an inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers and other suppliers, and could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our mail order or specialty pharmacies, including in connection with the risks inherent in the authorization, compounding, packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare products. Disruptions at any of our mail order or specialty pharmacies due to an event that is beyond our control could affect our ability to process and dispense prescriptions in a timely manner and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.If any of our government contracts are terminated or are not renewed or we receive an adverse review, audit or investigation, our business will suffer. We provide managed care programs and selected services to individuals receiving benefits under governmental assistance programs. We provide those healthcare services under contracts with regulatory entities in the areas in which we operate. Our government contracts are generally intended to run for three years and may be extended for additional years if the contracting entity or its agent elects to do so. When our contracts expire, they may be opened for bidding by competing healthcare providers, and there is no guarantee that our contracts will be renewed or extended. Competitors may buy their way into the market by submitting bids with lower pricing. Further, our government contracts contain certain provisions regarding eligibility, enrollment and dis-enrollment processes for covered services, eligible providers, periodic financial and informational reporting, quality assurance, timeliness of claims payment and agreement to maintain a Medicare plan in the state and financial standards and are subject to cancellation if we fail to perform in accordance with the standards set by regulatory agencies.35Table of ContentsWe are also subject to various reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the terms of our contracts with various governmental agencies and applicable laws and regulations. Any adverse review, audit or investigation could result in: cancellation of our contracts; refunding of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our contracts; imposition of fines, penalties and other sanctions on us; loss of our right to participate in various programs; increased difficulty in selling our products and services; or loss of one or more of our licenses. If any of our government contracts are terminated, not renewed, renewed on less favorable terms, or not renewed on a timely basis, or we have an adverse review, audit or investigation, our business will suffer, our goodwill could be impaired and our financial position, results of operations or cash flows may be materially affected.Ineffectiveness of state-operated systems and subcontractors could adversely affect our business. Our health plans rely on other state-operated systems or subcontractors to qualify, solicit, educate and assign eligible members into managed care plans. The effectiveness of these state operations and subcontractors can have a material effect on a health plan’s enrollment in a particular month or over an extended period. When a state implements new programs to determine eligibility, new processes to assign or enroll eligible members into health plans, or chooses new subcontractors, there is an increased potential for an unanticipated impact on the overall number of members assigned to managed care plans.Our investment portfolio may suffer losses which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity. We maintain a significant investment portfolio of cash equivalents and short term and long term investments in a variety of securities, which are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks and will decline in value if interest rates increase or one of the issuers’ credit ratings is reduced. As a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity of our investments, which may have a negative adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.Execution of our growth strategy may increase costs or liabilities, or create disruptions in our business. Our growth strategy includes the acquisition of health plans participating in government sponsored healthcare programs and specialty services businesses, contract rights and related assets of other health plans both in our existing service areas and in new markets and start-up operations in new markets or new products in existing markets. Although we review the records of companies or businesses we plan to acquire, it is possible that we could assume unanticipated liabilities or adverse operating conditions, or an acquisition may not perform as well as expected or may not achieve timely profitability. We also face the risk that we will not be able to effectively integrate acquisitions into our existing operations effectively without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems and we may need to divert more management resources to integration than we planned. In connection with start-up operations, we may incur significant expenses prior to commencement of operations and the receipt of revenue. For example, in order to obtain a certificate of authority in most jurisdictions, we must first establish a provider network, have systems in place and demonstrate our ability to administer a state contract and process claims. We may experience delays in operational start dates. As a result of these factors, start-up operations may decrease our profitability. In addition, we are planning to expand our business internationally and we will be subject to additional risks, including, but not limited to, political risk, an unfamiliar regulatory regime, currency exchange risk and exchange controls, cultural and language differences, foreign tax issues, and different labor laws and practices. If we are unable to effectively execute our growth strategy, our future growth will suffer and our results of operations could be harmed.If competing managed care programs are unwilling to purchase specialty services from us, we may not be able to successfully implement our strategy of diversifying our business lines. We are seeking to diversify our business lines into areas that complement our government sponsored health plan business in order to grow our revenue stream and balance our dependence on risk reimbursement. In order to diversify our business, we must succeed in selling the services of our specialty subsidiaries not only to our managed care plans, but to programs operated by third-parties. Some of these third-party programs may compete with us in some markets, and they therefore may be unwilling to purchase specialty services from us. In any event, the offering of these services will require marketing activities that differ significantly from the manner in which we seek to increase revenues from our government sponsored programs. Our ineffectiveness in marketing specialty services to third-parties may impair our ability to execute our business strategy. 36Table of ContentsAdverse credit market conditions may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity or our ability to obtain credit on acceptable terms. The securities and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption over the past several years. The availability of credit, from virtually all types of lenders, has at times been restricted. In the event we need access to additional capital to pay our operating expenses, fund subsidiary surplus requirements, make payments on or refinance our indebtedness, pay capital expenditures, or fund acquisitions, our ability to obtain such capital may be limited and the cost of any such capital may be significant, particularly if we are unable to access our existing credit facility. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as prevailing economic and credit market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and perceptions of our financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. If state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and distributions by our subsidiaries to us, we may not have sufficient funds to implement our business strategy.We principally operate through our health plan subsidiaries. As part of normal operations, we may make requests for dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries to fund our operations. These subsidiaries are subject to regulations that limit the amount of dividends and distributions that can be paid to us without prior approval of, or notification to, state regulators. If these regulators were to deny our subsidiaries’ request to pay dividends, the funds available to us would be limited, which could harm our ability to implement our business strategy.We derive a majority of our premium revenues from operations in a limited number of states, and our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would be materially affected by a decrease in premium revenues or profitability in any one of those states. Operations in a limited number of states have accounted for most of our premium revenues to date. If we were unable to continue to operate in any of our current states or if our current operations in any portion of one of those states were significantly curtailed, our revenues could decrease materially. Our reliance on operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue and profitability to change suddenly and unexpectedly depending on legislative or other governmental or regulatory actions and decisions, economic conditions and similar factors in those states. For example, states we currently serve may bid out their Medicaid program through a request for proposal process. Our inability to continue to operate in any of the states in which we operate could harm our business. Competition may limit our ability to increase penetration of the markets that we serve. We compete for members principally on the basis of size and quality of provider networks, benefits provided and quality of service. We compete with numerous types of competitors, including other health plans and traditional state Medicaid programs that reimburse providers as care is provided. In addition, the impact of healthcare reform legislation and potential growth in our segment may attract new competitors.Some of the health plans with which we compete have greater financial and other resources and offer a broader scope of products than we do. In addition, significant merger and acquisition activity has occurred in the managed care industry, as well as complementary industries, such as the hospital, physician, pharmaceutical, medical device and health information systems businesses. To the extent that competition intensifies in any market that we serve, as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, our ability to retain or increase members and providers, or maintain or increase our revenue growth, pricing flexibility and control over medical cost trends may be adversely affected.37Table of ContentsIf we are unable to maintain relationships with our provider networks, our profitability may be harmed. Our profitability depends, in large part, upon our ability to contract at competitive prices with hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers. Our provider arrangements with our primary care physicians, specialists and hospitals generally may be canceled by either party without cause upon 90 to 120 days prior written notice. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to continue to renew our existing contracts or enter into new contracts on a timely basis or under favorable terms enabling us to service our members profitably. Healthcare providers with whom we contract may not properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations.In any particular market, physicians and other healthcare providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs or difficulty in meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some markets, certain healthcare providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. In addition, accountable care organizations, practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, and other organizational structures that physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers choose may change the way in which these providers interact with us and may change the competitive landscape. Such organizations or groups of healthcare providers may compete directly with us, which could adversely affect our operations, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows by impacting our relationships with these providers or affecting the way that we price our products and estimate our costs, which might require us to incur costs to change our operations. Provider networks may consolidate, resulting in a reduction in the competitive environment. In addition, if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate contracts unfavorable to us or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be materially and adversely affected. From time to time healthcare providers assert or threaten to assert claims seeking to terminate non-cancelable agreements due to alleged actions or inactions by us. In addition, we are aware that other managed care organizations have been subject to class action lawsuits by healthcare providers with respect to claim payment procedures, and we may be subject to similar lawsuits. Regardless of whether any lawsuits brought against us are successful or have merit, they will still be time-consuming and costly and could distract our management’s attention. As a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to operate our business effectively. If we are unable to retain our current provider contract terms or enter into new provider contracts timely or on favorable terms, our profitability may be harmed. We may be unable to attract, retain or effectively manage the succession of key personnel. We are highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to operate and expand our business. We would be adversely impacted if we are unable to adequately plan for the succession of our executives and senior management. While we have succession plans in place for members of our executive and senior management team, these plans do not guarantee that the services of our executive and senior management team will continue to be available to us. Our ability to replace any departed members of our executive and senior management or other key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in the managed care and specialty services industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to operate and successfully expand a business such as ours. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these personnel. If we are unable to attract, retain and effectively manage the succession plans for key personnel, executives and senior management, our business and financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be harmed. If we are unable to integrate and manage our information systems effectively, our operations could be disrupted. Our operations depend significantly on effective information systems. The information gathered and processed by our information systems assists us in, among other things, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, processing provider claims, and providing data to our regulators. Our healthcare providers also depend upon our information systems for membership verifications, claims status and other information. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs and regulatory requirements. We regularly upgrade and expand our information systems’ capabilities. If we experience difficulties with the transition to or from information systems or are unable to properly maintain or expand our information systems, we could suffer, among other things, operational disruptions, loss of existing members and difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses. In addition, our ability to integrate and manage our information systems may be impaired as the result of events outside our control, including acts of nature, such as earthquakes or fires, or acts of terrorists. 38Table of ContentsFrom time to time, we may become involved in costly and time-consuming litigation and other regulatory proceedings, which require significant attention from our management. We are a defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business, including, without limitation, medical malpractice claims. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings are costly and time consuming and require significant attention from our management, and could therefore harm our business and financial position, results of operations or cash flows.An impairment charge with respect to our recorded goodwill and intangible assets could have a material impact on our results of operations. We periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. Changes in business strategy, government regulations or economic or market conditions have resulted and may result in impairments of our goodwill and other intangible assets at any time in the future. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on, among other things, legal factors, market conditions, and operational performance. For example, the non-renewal of our health plan contracts with the state in which they operate may be an indicator of impairment. If an event or events occur that would cause us to revise our estimates and assumptions used in analyzing the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, such revision could result in a non-cash impairment charge that could have a material impact on our results of operations in the period in which the impairment occurs. If we fail to comply with applicable privacy, security, and data laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize sensitive personal information on our behalf, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. As part of our normal operations, we collect, process and retain confidential member information. We are subject to various federal and state laws and rules regarding the use and disclosure of confidential member information, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which require us to protect the privacy of medical records and safeguard personal health information we maintain and use. Certain of our businesses are also subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, which is a multifaceted security standard that is designed to protect credit card account data as mandated by payment card industry entities. Despite our best attempts to maintain adherence to information privacy and security best practices as well as compliance with applicable laws and rules, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to privacy or security breaches, acts of vandalism or theft, malware, misplaced or lost data including paper or electronic media, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. In the past, we have had data breaches resulting in disclosure of confidential or protected health information that have not resulted in any material financial loss or penalty to date. However, future data breaches could require us to expend significant resources to remediate any damage, interrupt our operations and damage our reputation, subject us to state or federal agency review and could also result in enforcement actions, material fines and penalties, litigation or other actions which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, HIPAA broadened the scope of fraud and abuse laws applicable to healthcare companies. HIPAA created civil penalties for, among other things, billing for medically unnecessary goods or services. HIPAA established new enforcement mechanisms to combat fraud and abuse, including civil and, in some instances, criminal penalties for failure to comply with specific standards relating to the privacy, security and electronic transmission of protected health information. The HITECH Act expanded the scope of these provisions by mandating individual notification in instances of breaches of protected health information, providing enhanced penalties for HIPAA violations, and granting enforcement authority to states’ Attorneys General in addition to the HHS Office for Civil Rights. It is possible that Congress may enact additional legislation in the future to increase penalties and to create a private right of action under HIPAA, which could entitle patients to seek monetary damages for violations of the privacy rules. In addition, HHS has announced that it will continue its audit program to assess HIPAA compliance efforts by covered entities with a focus on security risk assessments. Although we are not aware of HHS plans to audit any of our covered entities, an audit resulting in findings or allegations of noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.39Table of ContentsUnder HIPAA, health plans are required to have the capacity to accept and send all covered transactions in a standardized electronic format. Penalties can be imposed for failure to comply with these requirements. The transaction standards have been modified to version 5010 to prepare for the implementation of the ICD-10 coding system. While we have prepared for the transition to ICD-10 in October 2015, if unforeseen circumstances arise, it is possible that we could be exposed to investigations and allegations of noncompliance. In addition, if some providers continue to use ICD-9 codes on claims after October 1, 2015, we may have to reject such claims, which may lead to claim resubmissions, increased call volume and provider and customer dissatisfaction. Further, providers may use ICD-10 codes differently than they used ICD-9 codes in the past, which could result in higher costs and reimbursement levels, or lost revenues under risk adjustment. During the transition to ICD-10, certain claims processing and payment information we have historically used to establish our reserves may not be reliable or available in a timely manner. As a result, implementation of ICD 10 may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber attacks, could have an adverse effect on our business. Information security risks have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct our operations, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties, including foreign state agents. Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer systems and networks. Security breaches may arise from external or internal threats. External breaches include hacking personal information for financial gain, attempting to cause harm to our operations, or intending to obtain competitive information. We experience attempted external hacking or malicious attacks on a regular basis. We maintain a rigorous system of preventive and detective controls through our security programs; however, our prevention and detection controls may not prevent or identify all such attacks. Internal breaches may result from inappropriate security access to confidential information by rogue employees, consultants or third party service providers. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential member information, financial data, competitively sensitive information, or other proprietary data, whether by us or a third party, could have a material adverse effect on our business reputation, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations.Consummation of the merger with Health Net is subject to receipt of regulatory approvals and certain other conditions and we cannot predict when or if such conditions will be satisfied or waived or if, in connection with the receipt of necessary approvals, regulators will impose conditions on us that have an adverse effect on our business.Consummation of the merger with Health Net is subject to receipt of certain remaining regulatory approvals and certain other conditions, including, among others:•certain filings or consents required for the consummation of the Merger and the other transactions under applicable state and foreign insurance and health care regulatory laws having been made or obtained; and•certain other customary conditions.We cannot provide any assurance that the merger will be completed, that there will not be a delay in the completion of the merger or that all or any of the anticipated benefits of the merger will be realized. Any delay could also, among other things, result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other negative effects associated with uncertainty about completion of the merger. In the event the merger agreement is terminated or the transaction is materially delayed for any reason, the price of our common stock may be impacted. Regulatory authorities reviewing the merger may refuse to permit the merger or may impose restrictions or conditions on the merger that may adversely affect the Company if the merger is completed.We may be unable to successfully integrate our business with Health Net and realize the anticipated benefits of the merger.The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine the businesses of the Company and Health Net, which currently operate as independent public companies, and realize the anticipated benefits, including synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies, from the combination. If we are unable to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected and the value of our common stock may be harmed.40Table of ContentsThe merger involves the integration of Health Net’s business with our existing business, which is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. We have not previously completed a transaction comparable in size or scope to the proposed merger. The integration of the two companies may result in material challenges, including, without limitation:•the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns and performance shortfalls at one or both of the companies as a result of the devotion of management’s attention to the merger;•managing a larger combined company;•maintaining employee morale and retaining key management and other employees;•the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process;•retaining existing business and operational relationships and attracting new business and operational relationships;•consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations;•coordinating geographically separate organizations;•unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems;•unanticipated changes in federal or state laws or regulations, including the ACA and the Health Care Education Affordability Reconciliation Act and any regulations enacted thereunder; and•unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the merger.Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in delays, increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We and Health Net are currently permitted to conduct only limited planning for the integration of the two companies following the merger and have not yet determined the exact nature of how the businesses and operations of the two companies will be combined after the merger. The actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized.Our financial results after the merger will depend on our ability to maintain our and Health Net’s business and operational relationships.A substantial portion of each of our and Health Net’s revenues are received under contracts with states. Our success following the merger will depend in part on our ability to maintain these state contracts and other business and operational relationships, including those of Health Net. Health Net’s state contracts and other business and operational relationships may have termination or other rights that may be triggered by the merger, or the states or other business and operational relationships may decide not to renew their existing relationships with Health Net or, after the merger, with us. If Health Net (prior to the completion of the merger) and we (after the completion of the merger) are unable to maintain these contracts and other business and operational relationships, our financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially affected.We are expected to incur substantial expenses related to the completion of the merger and the integration of Health Net.We are expected to incur substantial expenses in connection with the completion of the merger and the integration of Health Net. There are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated, including purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, payroll, pricing, revenue management, marketing and benefits. In addition, the businesses of Centene and Health Net will continue to maintain a presence in St. Louis, Missouri and Woodland Hills, California, respectively. The substantial majority of these costs will be non-recurring expenses related to the merger (including financing of the merger), facilities and systems consolidation costs. We may incur additional costs to maintain employee morale and to retain key employees. We will also incur transaction fees and costs related to formulating integration plans for the combined business, and the execution of these plans may lead to additional unanticipated costs. Additionally, as a result of the merger, rating agencies may take negative actions with regard to our credit ratings. This may increase our costs in connection with the financing of the merger. These incremental transaction and merger-related costs may exceed the savings the combined company expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative costs and the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, particularly in the near term and in the event there are material unanticipated costs.41Table of ContentsFailure to complete the merger could impact our stock price and our future business and financial position, results of operations and cash flows.If the merger is not completed or our financing for the transaction becomes unavailable, our ongoing business and financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially affected and we will be subject to a number of risks, including the following:•depending on the reasons leading to such termination we could be liable to Health Net for termination fees in connection with the termination of the merger agreement;•we could be responsible for the transaction costs relating to the merger, whether or not the merger is completed;•while the merger agreement is in force, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business, which may adversely affect our ability to execute certain of our business strategies; •the market price of our common stock could decline to the extent that the current market price reflects, and is positively affected by, a market assumption that the transactions contemplated by the merger will be completed; and•matters relating to the merger (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, whether or not the merger is completed, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us.In addition, if the merger is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from our providers, members and employees. We may also be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the merger or to enforcement proceedings commenced against us to perform our obligations under the merger agreement. If the merger is not completed, these risks may materialize and may materially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, as well as the price of our common stock.The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the merger with Health Net.The market price of the common stock of our company may decline as a result of the merger if, among other things, we are unable to achieve the expected growth in earnings, or if the operational cost savings estimates in connection with the integration of Health Net’s business with ours are not realized, or if the transaction costs related to the merger are greater than expected, or if the financing related to the transaction is on unfavorable terms. The market price also may decline if we do not achieve the perceived benefits of the merger as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts or if the effect of the merger on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts.The merger will substantially reduce the percentage ownership interests of our current stockholders; it may not be accretive and may cause dilution to our earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock.Our stockholders have the right to vote in the election of our Board of Directors and on certain other matters affecting the Company. If the merger is completed we will pay approximately $6.8 billion and Health Net’s stockholders are expected to hold approximately 29% of the common stock of the Company after the merger. As a result, if the merger is completed, our pre-merger stockholders will own a smaller proportion of our outstanding common stock than the proportion of our outstanding common stock they owned before the merger and, as a result, they will have less influence on our management and policies following the merger than they now have on our management and policies. We currently anticipate that the merger will be accretive to our earnings per share. This expectation is based on preliminary estimates which may materially change. We could also encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs or other factors such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the merger, or unforeseen liabilities or other issues existing or arising with the business of Health Net or otherwise resulting from the merger. All of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the merger and cause a decrease in the price of our common stock.42Table of ContentsUncertainties associated with the merger may cause a loss of management personnel and other key employees which could adversely affect the future business and operations of the combined company.Centene and Health Net are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of their officers and other key employees to execute their business plans. The combined company’s success after the completion of the merger will depend in part upon the ability of Centene and Health Net to retain key management personnel and other key employees. Prior to completion of the merger, current and prospective employees of Centene and Health Net may experience uncertainty about their roles within the combined company following the completion of the merger, which may have an adverse effect on the ability of each of Centene and Health Net to attract or retain key management and other key personnel. In addition, no assurance can be given that the combined company will be able to attract or retain key management personnel and other key employees of Centene and Health Net to the same extent that Centene and Health Net have previously been able to attract or retain their own employees.The future results of the combined company may be adversely impacted if the combined company does not effectively manage its expanded operations following the completion of the merger.Following the completion of the merger, the size of the combined company’s business will be significantly larger than the current size of either Centene’s or Health Net’s respective businesses. The combined company’s ability to successfully manage this expanded business will depend, in part, upon management’s ability to design and implement strategic initiatives that address not only the integration of two discrete companies, but also the increased scale and scope of the combined business with its associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances that the combined company will be successful or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings and other benefits currently anticipated from the merger.The combined company will be significantly more leveraged than Centene is currently.Upon completion of the merger, the combined company expects to incur approximately $2,382 million in additional indebtedness. The combined company will have consolidated indebtedness of approximately $4,136 million, which is greater than the current indebtedness of Centene prior to the merger. The increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio of the combined company in comparison to that of Centene on a historical basis will have the effect, among other things, of reducing the flexibility of Centene to respond to changing business and economic conditions and increasing borrowing costs. 43Table of ContentsITEM 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.