Item 1A. Risk Factors.    Liquidity Risk.    Liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that Morgan Stanley will be unable to finance its operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating its assets. Liquidity and funding risk also encompasses the ability of Morgan Stanley to meet its financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten its viability as a going concern. For more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7 below.    Liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations.    Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be substantially negatively affected by an inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or an inability to access the secured lending markets. Factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to raise funding. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. Such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we are downgraded or put on negative watch by the rating agencies, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover serious employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations.    Our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings.   The cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on our short-term and long-term credit ratings. Factors that are significant to the determination of our credit ratings or otherwise affect our ability to raise short-term and long-term financing include the level and volatility of our earnings; our relative competitive position in the markets in which we operate; our geographic and product diversification; our ability to retain key personnel; our risk profile; our risk management policies; our cash liquidity; our capital adequacy; our corporate lending credit risk; and legal and regulatory developments. A deterioration in any of these factors or combination of these factors may lead rating agencies to downgrade our credit ratings, thereby increasing our cost of obtaining unsecured funding.    Our debt ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as OTC derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the Institutional Securities business, we would be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a downgrade by either Moody’s Investors Service or Standard & Poor’s.    We are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries.   We depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on our obligations, including debt obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. These laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations.    15       Table of Contents If our liquidity and funding policies are not adequate, we may be unable to access sufficient financing.   Our liquidity and funding policies have been designed to ensure that we maintain sufficient liquid financial resources to continue to conduct our business for an extended period in a stressed liquidity environment. If our liquidity and funding policies are not adequate or we do not adhere to the policies, we may be unable to access sufficient financing to service our financial obligations when they come due, which could have a material adverse franchise or business impact.    Market Risk.    Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices of commodities or securities, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. For more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see “Market Risk” in Part II, Item 7A below.    Our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic and other factors.    The amount, duration and range of our market risk exposures have been increasing over the past several years, and may continue to do so. Our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to economic factors. Results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the liquidity of global markets; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; and investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets. In addition, there have been legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to our businesses that potentially could increase costs, thereby affecting future results of operations. These factors also may have an impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives.    The results of our Institutional Securities business, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial fluctuations due to a variety of factors, such as those enumerated above that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. These fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. Fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments.    During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our Global Wealth Management Group business. In addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our Asset Management business. Furthermore, changes in economic variables, such as the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment and the level of consumer confidence and consumer debt, may substantially affect consumer loan levels and credit quality, which, in turn, could impact the results of our Discover business.    Holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses.    Concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, proprietary trading, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. We have committed substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often require us to take large positions in the securities of, or make large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. Moreover, the trend in all major capital markets is towards larger and more frequent commitments of capital in many of these activities, and we expect this trend to continue.    16       Table of Contents The profitability of certain of our commodities marketing activities depends on the availability of supplies of petroleum products. A significant decrease in available supplies for any reason could adversely affect the sales and results of operations of certain businesses within our commodities activities.    The success of our marketing and distribution in our commodities business depends on our ability to generate positive margins on sales of refined petroleum products. In addition, our terminal, tug and barge business depends on an active market for refined petroleum products to create demand for terminal services. The availability of supplies of refined petroleum products is essential to our pipeline, transport and terminal operations. A material disruption in the flow of refined petroleum product supplies could adversely affect our revenues from rack spot and contract sales, as well as throughput and storage fees. Among such risks are “force majeure” conditions caused by natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control. These conditions also may adversely affect the pipeline and marine operations as well as the shipping and terminaling operations in our commodities business.    We may incur significant losses in the real estate sector.    We finance and acquire principal positions in a number of real estate and real estate-related products for our own account, for investment vehicles managed by affiliates in which we also may have a significant investment, for separate accounts managed by affiliates and for major participants in the commercial and residential real estate markets, and originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. We also securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. These businesses could be adversely affected by a downturn in the real estate sector.    Credit Risk.    Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from the default by a borrower, counterparty or other obligor when it is unable or unwilling to meet its obligations to us. We are exposed to three distinct types of credit risk in our businesses. For more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see “Credit Risk” in Part II, Item 7A below.    We are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations.    We incur significant, “single-name” credit risk exposure through the Institutional Securities business. This risk may arise, for example, from entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have long-term obligations to make payments to us and by extending credit to our clients through various credit arrangements. We incur “individual consumer” credit risk in the Global Wealth Management Group business through margin loans to individual investors and loans to small businesses, both of which are generally collateralized. We incur “consumer portfolio” credit risk in the Discover business primarily through cardholder receivables. Credit risk in a pool of cardholder receivables is generally highly diversified, without significant individual exposures, and, accordingly, is managed on a portfolio and not a single-name basis.    The amount, duration and range of our credit exposures have been increasing over the past several years, and may continue to do so. In recent years, we have significantly expanded our use of swaps and other derivatives and we may continue to do so. Corporate clients are increasingly seeking loans or lending commitments from us in connection with investment banking and other assignments. In addition, we have experienced, due to competitive factors, increased pressure to assume longer-term credit risk, to extend credit against less liquid collateral and to price derivatives instruments more aggressively based on the credit risks that we take. As a clearing member firm, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. Although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee.    Defaults by another larger financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally.    The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened     17       Table of Contents  default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect Morgan Stanley.    Operational Risk.    Operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or potential damage to a firm’s reputation, arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, resources and systems or from external events (e.g. external or internal fraud, legal and compliance risks, damage to physical assets, etc.). Morgan Stanley may incur operational risk across its full scope of business activities, including revenue generating activities (e.g. sales and trading) and support functions (e.g. information technology and facilities management). As such, Morgan Stanley may incur operational risk in each of its businesses, as well as within the control groups. For more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see “Operational Risk” in Part II, Item 7A below.    We are subject to operational risk and an operational event could adversely affect our businesses.    Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. In general, the transactions we process are increasingly complex. We perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. We rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by third parties to process a high volume of transactions. We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. In the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or third party’s systems or improper action by third parties or employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation.    Despite the business contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located. This may include a disruption involving physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, electrical, communications or other services used by Morgan Stanley, its employees or third parties with whom we conduct business.    Legal Risk.    Legal risk refers to the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. Legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty’s performance obligations will be unenforceable. For more information on how we monitor and manage legal risk, see “Legal Risk” in Part II, Item 7A below.    The financial services industry faces substantial litigation and regulatory risks, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability.    We have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.    We are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. The number of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. Like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure     18       Table of Contents  of confidential information. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. For more information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved and in particular, the Coleman Litigation, see “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 below.    We are subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses.    We are subject to extensive regulation globally and face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. Among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. Significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects, cause significant reputational harm to us, or harm our business prospects. New laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely affect our business. For more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see “Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 above.    Our commodities activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.    In connection with the commodities activities in our Institutional Securities business, we engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of several commodities, including metals (base and precious), crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal and related products. In addition, we own three exempt wholesale generators in the U.S. and one electric generation facility in the Netherlands. As a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, environmental, safety and other governmental laws and regulations. Our commodities business also exposes us to the risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including leaks, spills and terrorist attacks.    Although we have attempted to mitigate our pollution and other environmental risks, including those discussed below, by, among other measures, adopting appropriate policies and procedures for power plant operations, monitoring the quality of petroleum storage facilities and transport vessels and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. In addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by these events.    We also expect the other laws and regulations affecting our energy business to increase in both scope and complexity. During the past several years, intensified scrutiny of the energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies engaged in the activities in which we are engaged. We may incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment.    Pipeline, Marine Transport and Terminal Operations. The risk of substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in pipeline, marine transport and terminal operations. As is the case with respect to our other commodities activities, both U.S. and international environmental laws are or may be applicable, including U.S. and foreign oil spill anti-pollution statutes. Liability may be incurred without regard to fault under federal laws and regulations and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas.    Prior owners, tenants or users of properties now owned by us or our subsidiaries may have disposed of or released hydrocarbons or solid wastes on or under such assets. Additionally, the acquired pipeline, transport and terminal operations are located near current or former refining and terminal operations. There is a risk that contamination, if ever present, has migrated or could migrate from those properties. Increasingly strict environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies and claims for damages and other similar developments could result in substantial costs and liabilities.    19       Table of Contents Certain operations in our commodities business are subject to the hazards inherent in the transportation and storage of volatile and sometimes toxic petroleum products, including explosions, the release of toxic substances, fires and accidents on land and at sea that could result in personal injuries, loss of life and suspension of operations. These operations also are subject to risks associated with natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control. Although we maintain substantial insurance coverage, catastrophic events of this kind could exceed such coverage.    Power Generation Facilities. The power generation facilities we own are subject to wide-ranging U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad relating to air quality, water quality and hazardous and solid waste management. They also are regulated under U.S. health and safety regulations. These laws may require capital expenditures as well as remediation where the facility has failed to comply with environmental, health or safety rules or has released pollutants into the environment. Additionally, the owners of such facilities may be subject to fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental, health or safety rules.    Oil Trading Activities. The U.S. and foreign water pollution laws and numerous specific oil spill anti-pollution statutes apply to our oil trading activities to the extent we own petroleum in storage or during waterborne or overland transit or we arrange for transportation or storage. In the event of an oil spill, one or more entities we own could be held responsible for remediation as well as property and natural resource damages. Other U.S. federal and state laws apply to the specifications of the gasoline and diesel fuel that we blend and import and provide for substantial penalties in the event of non-compliance. Oil pollution laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions also apply to us in certain instances when we trade petroleum internationally and/or charter vessels. Like the U.S. statutes, these laws often provide for penalties and damage assessments should a spill event occur.    Conflicts of interest are increasing and a failure to appropriately deal with conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses.    Our reputation is one of our most important assets. As we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we increasingly have to address potential conflicts of interest, including those relating to our proprietary activities. For example, conflicts may arise between our position as a financial advisor in a merger transaction and a principal investment we hold in one of the parties to the transaction. In addition, hedge funds and private equity funds are an increasingly important portion of our client base, and also compete with us in a number of our businesses. We have procedures and controls that are designed to address conflicts of interest. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. In addition, the SEC and other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. It is possible that potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions. It is possible that the regulatory scrutiny of, and litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest will make our clients less willing to enter into transactions in which such a conflict may occur, and will adversely affect our businesses.    We are subject to tax contingencies that could adversely affect results.    We are subject to the income and indirect tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have significant business operations. These tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. We must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and the expense for indirect taxes and must also make estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit.    20       Table of Contents Competitive Environment.    We face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability.    The financial services industry, and all of our businesses, are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete with commercial banks, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and through the internet. We compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, reputation and price. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become considerably more concentrated, as financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms. This convergence could result in our competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. We may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. For more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see “Competition” in Part I, Item 1 above.    Our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance.    Our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. In order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. Typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense as compensation is highly variable and moves with performance. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected.    International Risk.    We are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways.    We are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases.    We have expanded, and continue to look at opportunities to expand, in the emerging markets. In the last several years, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, capital and currency exchange controls and low or negative growth rates in their economies. These conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally.    The emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world.    21       Table of Contents Acquisition Risk.    We may be unable to fully capture the expected value from future acquisitions, joint ventures and minority stakes.    We expect to grow in part through acquisitions, joint ventures and minority stakes. To the extent we make acquisitions or enter into combinations or joint ventures, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients and business partners. In the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the joint venture. There is no assurance that our recent acquisitions or any business we acquire in the future will be successfully integrated and result in all of the positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able to integrate successfully our past and future acquisitions, there is a risk that our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.    Credit Card Risk.    Our Discover business subjects us to risks that impact the credit card industry.    The performance of our Discover business is subject to numerous risks that impact the credit card industry, including rising cost of funds pressuring spreads; slow industry growth with rising payment rates; future loan loss rate uncertainty, especially given bankruptcy reform and changing minimum payment requirements; and a consolidating industry with competitive pressures and increasing marketing constraints. Changes in economic variables, such as the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment and the level of consumer confidence, consumer spending and consumer debt may substantially affect consumer loan levels and credit quality. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by these factors.    Risk Management.    Our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk.    We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. As a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. For more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see “Market Risk” in Part II, Item 7A below.     Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.