Item 1A. Risk Factors.  Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the material factors affecting our company. However, the risks and uncertainties our company faces are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.   Risks Relating to Our Business  Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by market fluctuations and by economic and other factors. Our financial condition and results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic and other factors. Many such factors of a global or localized nature include: political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates, currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; terrorism events and armed conflicts; and natural disasters such as weather catastrophes and widespread health emergencies. Furthermore, changes in consumer economic variables, such as the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment, decreases in property values, and the level of consumer confidence and consumer debt, may substantially affect consumer loan levels and credit quality, which, in turn, could impact the results of our banking business. These factors also may have an impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives.  Although U.S. and global capital markets demonstrated signs of improvement and stabilization in the second half of 2009, current market conditions remains precarious and any further declines or volatility in U.S. and global market conditions would impact our businesses. Our businesses have been and in the future may be adversely affected by U.S. and global capital market and credit crises, the repricing of credit risk, equity market volatility and decline, and stress or recession in the U.S. and global economies generally. In addition, since the second half of 2007, difficulties in the mortgage and broader capital markets in the United States and elsewhere, coupled with the repricing of credit risk, have created extremely difficult and uncertain market conditions. Each of our segments operates in these markets with exposure for ourselves and our clients in securities, loans, derivatives, alternative investments, seed capital and other commitments. It is difficult to predict how long and to what extent the aforementioned conditions will exist, which of our markets, products and businesses will be directly affected in terms of revenues, management fees and investment valuations and earnings, and to what extent our clients may seek to bring claims arising out of investment performance. As a result, these factors could materially adversely impact our results of operations. Certain of our insurance and annuity products and certain of our investment and banking products are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, and our future costs associated with such variations may differ from our historical costs. In addition, interest rate fluctuations could result in fluctuations in the valuation of certain minimum guaranteed benefits contained in some of our variable annuity  ANNUAL REPORT 2009 21      Table of Contents  products. Although we typically hedge against such fluctuations, significant changes in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.  During periods of increasing market interest rates, we must offer higher crediting rates on interest-sensitive products, such as fixed universal life insurance, fixed annuities, face-amount certificates and certificates of deposit, and we must increase crediting rates on in force products to keep these products competitive. Because returns on invested assets may not increase as quickly as current interest rates, we may have to accept a lower spread and thus lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. In addition, increases in market interest rates may cause increased policy surrenders, withdrawals from life insurance policies, annuity contracts and certificates of deposit and requests for policy loans, as policyholders, contract holders and depositors seek to shift assets to products with perceived higher returns. This process may lead to an earlier than expected outflow of cash from our business. Also, increases in market interest rates may result in extension of certain cash flows from structured mortgage assets. These withdrawals and surrenders may require investment assets to be sold at a time when the prices of those assets are lower because of the increase in market interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. Increases in crediting rates, as well as surrenders and withdrawals, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. An increase in surrenders and withdrawals also may require us to accelerate amortization of deferred acquisition costs or other intangibles or cause an impairment of goodwill, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net earnings.  During periods of falling interest rates or stagnancy of low interest rates, our spread may be reduced or could become negative, primarily because some of our products have guaranteed minimum crediting rates. Due to the long-term nature of the liabilities associated with certain of our businesses, such as fixed annuities and guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, sustained declines or stagnancy of low interest rates in long-term interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging costs.  Interest rate fluctuations also could have an adverse effect on the results of our investment portfolio. During periods of declining market interest rates or stagnancy of low interest rates, the interest we receive on variable interest rate investments decreases. In addition, during those periods, we are forced to reinvest the cash we receive as interest or return of principal on our investments in lower-yielding high-grade instruments or in lower-credit instruments to maintain comparable returns. Issuers of certain callable fixed income securities also may decide to prepay their obligations in order to borrow at lower market rates, which increase the risk that we may have to invest the cash proceeds of these securities in lower-yielding or lower-credit instruments.  Significant downturns and volatility in equity markets have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Market downturns and volatility may cause, and have caused, potential new purchasers of our products to refrain from purchasing products, such as mutual funds, OEICs, variable annuities and variable universal life insurance, which have returns linked to the performance of the equity markets. If we are unable to offer appropriate product alternatives which encourage customers to continue purchasing in the face of actual or perceived market volatility, our sales and management fee revenues could decline. Downturns may also cause current shareholders in our mutual funds and OEICs, contract holders in our annuity products and policyholders in our protection products to withdraw cash values from those products.  Additionally, downturns and volatility in equity markets can have, and have had, an adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our asset management services, wrap accounts and variable annuity contracts. Because the profitability of these products and services depends on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, declines in the equity markets will reduce our revenues because the value of the investment assets we manage will be reduced. In addition, some of our variable annuity products contain guaranteed minimum death benefits and guaranteed minimum withdrawal and accumulation benefits. A significant equity market decline or volatility in equity markets could result in guaranteed minimum benefits being higher than what current account values would support, thus producing a loss as we pay the benefits, having an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we have hedged a portion of the guarantees for the variable annuity contracts in order to mitigate the financial loss of equity market declines or volatility, there can be no assurance that such a decline or volatility would not materially impact the profitability of certain products or product lines or our financial condition or results of operations. Further, the cost of hedging our liability for these guarantees may increase as a result of low interest rates and volatility in the equity markets. In addition, heightened volatility creates greater uncertainty for future hedging effectiveness.  We believe that investment performance is an important factor in the growth of many of our businesses. Poor investment performance could impair our revenues and earnings, as well as our prospects for growth. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from investment management agreements with the RiverSource family of mutual funds that are terminable on 60 days' notice. In addition, although some contracts governing investment management services are subject to termination for failure to meet performance benchmarks, institutional and individual clients can terminate their relationships with us or our  22 ANNUAL REPORT 2009      Table of Contents  financial advisors at will or on relatively short notice. Our clients can also reduce the aggregate amount of managed assets or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures, for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, changes in investment preferences, changes in our (or our financial advisors') reputation in the marketplace, changes in client management or ownership, loss of key investment management personnel and financial market performance. A reduction in managed assets, and the associated decrease in revenues and earnings, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, certain money market funds we advise carry net asset protection mechanisms, which can be triggered by a decline in market value of underlying portfolio assets. This decline could cause us to contribute capital to the funds without consideration, which would result in a loss.  In addition, during periods of unfavorable or stagnating market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our retail businesses. Concerns about current market and economic conditions, declining real estate values and decreased consumer confidence have caused and in the future may cause some of our clients to reduce the amount of business that they do with us. We cannot predict whether or the extent to which improvements in market conditions and consumer confidence experienced in the second half of 2009 will continue or will extend more broadly across a wider range of financial asset classes than those which experienced improvement. Fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed maturity or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our Asset Management, Advice & Wealth Management and Annuities businesses. Also, during periods of unfavorable economic conditions, unemployment rates can increase, and have increased, which can result in higher loan delinquency and default rates, and this can have a negative impact on our banking business. Uncertain economic conditions and heightened market volatility may also increase the likelihood that clients or regulators present or threaten legal claims, that regulators may increase the frequency and scope of their examinations of us or the financial services industry generally, and that lawmakers enact new requirements or taxation which have a material impact on our revenues, expenses or statutory capital requirements.  Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital.  The capital and credit markets continue to experience varying degrees of volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest expenses and dividends on our capital stock. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be required to curtail our operations, and our business would suffer.  We maintain a level of cash and securities which, combined with expected cash inflows from investments and operations, is believed adequate to meet anticipated short-term and long-term benefit and expense payment obligations. In the event current resources are insufficient to satisfy our needs, we may need to rely on financing sources such as bank debt. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that our shareholders, customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating organizations take negative actions against us.  Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to satisfy statutory capital requirements, generate fee income and market-related revenue to meet liquidity needs and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue different types of capital than we would otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility.  The impairment of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.  We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds, insurers, reinsurers and other investment funds and other institutions. The operations of U.S. and global financial services institutions are highly interconnected and a decline in the financial condition of one or more financial services institutions may expose us to credit losses or defaults, limit our access to liquidity or otherwise disrupt the operations of our businesses.  Many transactions with and investments in the products and securities of other financial institutions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. With respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to it. We also have exposure to financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, derivative transactions  ANNUAL REPORT 2009 23      Table of Contents  (including with respect to derivatives hedging our exposure on variable annuity contracts with guaranteed benefits), reinsurance and underwriting arrangements and equity investments. There can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these assets would not materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations.  Downgrades in the credit or financial strength ratings assigned to the counterparties with whom we transact could create the perception that our financial condition will be adversely impacted as a result of potential future defaults by such counterparties. Additionally, we could be adversely affected by a general, negative perception of financial institutions caused by the downgrade of other financial institutions. Accordingly, ratings downgrades for other financial institutions could affect our market capitalization and could limit access to or increase our cost of capital.  The failure of other insurers could require us to pay higher assessments to state insurance guaranty funds.  Our insurance companies are required by law to be members of the guaranty fund association in every state where they are licensed to do business. In the event of insolvency of one or more unaffiliated insurance companies, our insurance companies could be adversely affected by the requirement to pay assessments to the guaranty fund associations.  Third-party defaults, bankruptcy filings, legal actions and other events may limit the value of or restrict our access and our clients' access to cash and investments.  Capital and credit market volatility can exacerbate, and has exacerbated, the risk of third-party defaults, bankruptcy filings, foreclosures, legal actions and other events that may limit the value of or restrict our access and our clients' access to cash and investments. Although we are not required to do so, we have elected in the past, and we may elect in the future, to compensate clients for losses incurred in response to such events, provide clients with temporary credit or liquidity or other support related to products that we manage, or provide credit liquidity or other support to the financial products we manage. Any such election to provide support may arise from factors specific to our clients, our products or industry-wide factors. If we elect to provide additional support, we could incur losses from the support we provide and incur additional costs, including financing costs, in connection with the support. These losses and additional costs could be material and could adversely impact our results of operations. If we were to take such actions we may also restrict or otherwise utilize our corporate assets, limiting our flexibility to use these assets for other purposes, and may be required to raise additional capital.  Governmental initiatives intended to address capital market and general economic conditions may not be effective and may give rise to additional requirements for our business, including enhanced oversight, new capital requirements, additional fees and taxes or other regulations, that could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity in ways that we cannot predict.  Recent economic conditions have caused the U.S. federal government, Federal Reserve and other U.S. and foreign governmental and regulatory bodies to take or to consider taking legislative and regulatory actions designed to address the financial crisis and to mitigate against the risk of similar crises going forward. In 2009, the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives passed various forms of legislation setting forth a comprehensive plan for regulatory reform in the financial industry. While such legislation has not been finalized, these plans contemplate significant structural reforms, including heightened governmental powers to regulate risk across the financial system and the creation of a new consumer financial protection agency. The legislation also calls for increased substantive regulation of the financial industry, including heightened regulation of large financial institutions whose combination of size, leverage, and interconnectedness could, upon the failure of such an institution, pose a threat to financial stability, a modified standard of care for broker-dealers, expanded regulation over credit ratings agencies and derivatives and securitization markets, effective increases in regulatory capital requirements, and various corporate governance initiatives. In addition, specific taxes targeted at larger financial institutions have been proposed that could increase our costs and reduce our earnings. There can be no assurance as to whether or when any of the parts of the proposed financial reform plans will be enacted into legislation, and if adopted, what the final provisions of such legislation will be.  This legislation or similar proposals may fail to stabilize the financial markets or the economy generally. Any new legislation or regulatory changes could require us to change certain of our business practices, impose additional costs on us, or otherwise adversely affect our business operations, regulatory reporting relationships, results of operations or financial condition. Consequences may include substantially higher compliance costs as well as material effects on interest rates and foreign exchange rates, which could materially impact our investments, results of operations and liquidity in ways that we cannot predict. In addition, prolonged government support for, and intervention in the management of, private institutions could distort customary and expected commercial behavior on the part of those institutions, adversely impacting us. In addition, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are administered and enforced by different governmental authorities and non-governmental self-regulatory organizations, including foreign regulators, state  24 ANNUAL REPORT 2009      Table of Contents  securities and insurance regulators, the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange, FINRA, The Securities Investor Protection Corporation ("SIPC"), the OTS, the U.S. Department of Justice and state attorneys general. Financial conditions may prompt, and have prompted, some of these authorities to consider additional regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or otherwise assure the stability of institutions under their supervision. These authorities may also seek to exercise their authority in new or more expansive ways and the U.S. government may create additional regulators or materially change the authorities of existing regulators. All of these possibilities, if they occurred, could impact the way we conduct our business and manage our capital, and may require us to satisfy increased capital requirements, which in turn could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  Defaults in our fixed maturity securities portfolio or consumer credit products could adversely affect our earnings.  Issuers of the fixed maturity securities that we own may default on principal and interest payments. As of December 31, 2009, 5% of our invested assets had ratings below investment-grade. Moreover, economic downturns and corporate malfeasance can increase the number of companies, including those with investment-grade ratings, that default on their debt obligations. Default-related declines in the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio or consumer credit products could cause our net earnings to decline and could also cause us to contribute capital to some of our regulated subsidiaries, which may require us to obtain funding during periods of unfavorable market conditions. Higher delinquency and default rates in our bank's loan portfolio could require us to contribute capital to Ameriprise Bank and may result in additional restrictions from our regulators that impact the use and access to that capital.  If the counterparties to our reinsurance arrangements or to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks default, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  We use reinsurance to mitigate our risks in various circumstances as described in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K — "Business — Our Segments — Protection — Reinsurance." Reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. Accordingly, we bear credit and performance risk with respect to our reinsurers. A reinsurer's insolvency or its inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of our reinsurance agreement could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See Notes 2 and 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  In addition, we use a variety of derivative instruments (including options, forwards, and interest rate and currency swaps) with a number of counterparties to hedge business risks. The amount and breadth of exposure to derivative counterparties, as well as the cost of derivative instruments, have increased significantly in connection with our strategies to hedge guaranteed benefit obligations under our variable annuity products. If our counterparties fail to honor their obligations under the derivative instruments in a timely manner, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. That failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. This risk of failure of our hedge transactions may be increased by capital market volatility.  The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on certain investments is subject to management's evaluation and judgment and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position.  The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments vary by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of inherent and known risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances.  The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on management's case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value that considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer, and management uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Inherent in management's evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential, which assumptions and estimates are more difficult to make with certainty under current market conditions.  Our valuation of fixed maturity and equity securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition.  Fixed maturity, equity, trading securities and short-term investments, which are reported at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets, represent the majority of our total cash and invested assets. The determination of fair values by management in the absence of quoted market prices is based on: (i) valuation  ANNUAL REPORT 2009 25      Table of Contents  methodologies; (ii) securities we deem to be comparable; and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances. The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and quoted market prices of comparable securities. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.  During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, certain securities may require additional subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation, thereby resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.  Some of our investments are relatively illiquid.  We invest a portion of our owned assets in certain privately placed fixed income securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, limited partnership interests, collateralized debt obligations and restricted investments held by securitization trusts, among others, all of which are relatively illiquid. These asset classes represented 12% of the carrying value of our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2009. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of our normal cash requirements, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner or be forced to sell them for an amount less than we would otherwise have been able to realize, or both, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Intense competition and the economics of changes in our product revenue mix and distribution channels could negatively impact our ability to maintain or increase our market share and profitability.  Our businesses operate in intensely competitive industry segments. We compete based on a number of factors, including name recognition, service, the quality of investment advice, investment performance, product features, price, perceived financial strength, and claims-paying and credit ratings. Our competitors include broker-dealers, banks, asset managers, insurers and other financial institutions. Many of our businesses face competitors that have greater market share, offer a broader range of products, have greater financial resources, or have higher claims-paying or credit ratings than we do. Some of our competitors may possess or acquire intellectual property rights that could provide a competitive advantage to them in certain markets or for certain products, which could make it more difficult for us to introduce new products and services. Some of our competitors' proprietary products or technology could be similar to our own, and this could result in disputes that could impact our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, over time certain sectors of the financial services industry have become considerably more concentrated, as financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms. This convergence could result in our competitors gaining greater resources and we may experience pressures on our pricing and market share as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices.  Historically, our branded advisor network (both franchisee advisors and those employed by AFSI) distributed annuity and protection products issued almost exclusively (in the case of annuities) or predominantly (in the case of protection products) by our RiverSource Life companies. The primary exception to this general practice is that the branded advisors who joined us in connection with the H&R Block Financial Advisors acquisition have continued to offer annuities from competitors as they did prior to the acquisition. We expect they will continue to do so until we harmonize the competitive products offered by all of our branded advisors, as described below, at which point some of these advisors will offer a more limited number of competitors' products. In 2010, we plan to begin expanding the offerings available to all of our branded advisors to include variable annuities issued by a limited number of unaffiliated insurance companies. As a result of this and further openings of our branded advisor network to the products of other companies, we could experience lower sales of our companies' products, higher surrenders, or other developments which might not be fully offset by higher distribution revenues or other benefits, possibly resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations.  A drop in investment performance as compared to our competitors could negatively impact our ability to increase profitability.  Sales of our own mutual funds by our affiliated financial advisor network comprise a significant percentage of our total mutual fund sales. We attribute this success to performance, new  26 ANNUAL REPORT 2009      Table of Contents  products and marketing efforts. A decline in the level of investment performance as compared to our competitors could cause a decline in market share and a commensurate drop in profits as sales of other companies' mutual funds are less profitable than those from our own mutual funds. A decline in investment performance could also adversely affect the realization of benefits from investments in our strategy to expand alternative distribution channels for our own products, including third-party distribution of our mutual funds.  We face intense competition in attracting and retaining key talent.  We are dependent on our network of branded advisors for a significant portion of the sales of our mutual funds, annuities, face-amount certificates, banking and insurance products. In addition, our continued success depends to a substantial degree on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. The market for financial advisors, registered representatives, management talent, qualified legal and compliance professionals, fund managers, and investment analysts is extremely competitive. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified individuals or our recruiting and retention costs increase significantly, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted.  Our businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in legislation or regulation may reduce our profitability, limit our growth, or impact our ability to pay dividends or achieve targeted return-on-equity levels.  We operate in highly regulated industries and are required to obtain and maintain licenses for many of the businesses we operate in addition to being subject to regulatory oversight. Securities regulators have significantly increased the level of regulation in recent years and have several outstanding proposals for additional regulation. Market conditions and recent events could result in increases or changes in current regulations and regulatory structures, including higher licensing fees and assessments. In addition, we are subject to heightened requirements and associated costs and risks relating to privacy and the protection of customer data. These requirements, costs and risks, as well as possible legislative or regulatory changes, may constrain our ability to market our products and services to our target demographic and potential customers, and could negatively impact our profitability and make it more difficult for us to pursue our growth strategy.  Our insurance companies are subject to state regulation and must comply with statutory reserve and capital requirements. State regulators are continually reviewing and updating these requirements and other requirements relating to the business operations of insurance companies, including their underwriting and sales practices. The NAIC adopted a change to require principles-based reserves for variable annuities at the end of 2009, and continues to discuss moving to a principles-based reserving system for other insurance and annuity products. The requirement for principles-based variable annuity reserves, along with a similar risk-based capital requirement adopted previously, may result in statutory reserves and risk-based capital for variable annuities being more sensitive to changes in equity prices and other market factors. It is not possible at this time to estimate the potential impact on our insurance businesses of future changes in statutory reserve and capital requirements. Further, we cannot predict the effect that proposed federal legislation, such as the option of federally chartered insurers or a mandated federal systemic risk regulator, may have on our insurance businesses or their competitors. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive. Moreover, the evaluation of our compliance with broker-dealer, investment advisor, insurance company and banking regulation by the SEC, OTS and other regulatory organizations is an ongoing feature of our business, the outcomes of which may not be foreseeable. Changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business. Our financial advisors may decide that the direct cost of compliance and the indirect cost of time spent on compliance matters outweigh the benefits of a career as a financial advisor, which could lead to financial advisor attrition. The costs of the compliance requirements we face, and the constraints they impose on our operations, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to reduce our fee levels, or restructure the fees we charge, as a result of regulatory initiatives or proceedings that are either industry-wide or specifically targeted at our company. Reductions or other changes in the fees that we charge for our products and services could reduce our revenues and earnings. Moreover, in the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we earned $1.4 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, in distribution fees. A significant portion of these revenues was paid to us by our own RiverSource family of mutual funds in accordance with plans and agreements of distribution adopted under Rule 12b-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or Rule 12b-1. We believe that these fees are a critical element in the distribution of our own mutual funds. However, an industry-wide reduction or restructuring of Rule 12b-1 fees could have a material adverse effect on our ability to distribute our own mutual funds and the fees we receive for distributing other companies' mutual funds, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings.  Consumer lending activities at our bank are subject to applicable laws as well as regulation by various regulatory bodies. Changes in laws or regulation could affect our bank's ability to conduct business. These changes could include but are not limited to our bank's ability to market and sell products, fee pricing or interest  ANNUAL REPORT 2009 27      Table of Contents  rates that can be charged on loans outstanding, changes in communication with customers that affect payments, statements and collections of loans, and changes in accounting for the consumer lending business.  The majority of our affiliated financial advisors are independent contractors. Legislative or regulatory action that redefines the criteria for determining whether a person is an employee or an independent contractor could materially impact our relationships with our advisors, and our business, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations.  For a further discussion of the regulatory framework in which we operate, see Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K — "Business — Regulation."  We face risks arising from acquisitions.  We have made acquisitions in the past and expect to continue to do so. We face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including difficulties in the integration of acquired businesses into our operations, difficulties in assimilating and retaining employees and intermediaries, difficulties in retaining the existing customers of the acquired entities, unforeseen liabilities that arise in connection with the acquired businesses, the failure of counterparties to satisfy any obligations to indemnify us against liabilities arising from the acquired businesses, and unfavorable market conditions that could negatively impact our growth expectations for the acquired businesses. These risks may prevent us from realizing the expected benefits from acquisitions and could result in the impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets recognized at the time of acquisition.  A failure to protect our reputation, including the proper management of conflicts of interest, could adversely affect our businesses.  Our reputation is one of our most important assets. Our ability to attract and retain customers, investors, employees and affiliated financial advisors is highly dependent upon external perceptions of our level of service, business practices and financial condition. Damage to our reputation could cause significant harm to our business and prospects and may arise from numerous sources, including litigation or regulatory actions, failing to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures, unethical behavior and the misconduct of employees, affiliated financial advisors and counterparties. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters could damage our reputation among existing and potential customers, investors, employees and affiliated financial advisors. Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against us.  Our reputation is also dependent on our continued identification of and mitigation against conflicts of interest. As we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we increasingly have to identify and address potential conflicts of interest, including those relating to our proprietary activities and those relating to our sales of non-proprietary products from manufacturers that have agreed to provide us marketing, sales and account maintenance support. For example, conflicts may arise between our position as a provider of financial planning services and as a manufacturer and/or distributor or broker of asset accumulation, income or insurance products that one of our affiliated financial advisors may recommend to a financial planning client. We have procedures and controls that are designed to identify, address and appropriately disclose conflicts of interest. However, identifying and appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex, and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. In addition, the SEC and other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. It is possible that potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions. It is possible also that the regulatory scrutiny of, and litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest will make our clients less willing to enter into transactions in which such a conflict may occur, and will adversely affect our businesses.  Misconduct by our employees and affiliated financial advisors is difficult to detect and deter and could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition.  Misconduct by our employees and affiliated financial advisors could result in violations of law, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm. Misconduct can occur in each of our businesses and could include:   >binding us to transactions that exceed authorized limits;   >hiding unauthorized or unsuccessful activities resulting in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses;   >improperly using, disclosing or otherwise compromising confidential information;   >recommending transactions that are not suitable;   >engaging in fraudulent or otherwise improper activity;   >engaging in unauthorized or excessive trading to the detriment of customers; or   >otherwise not complying with laws, regulations or our control procedures.  We cannot always deter misconduct by our employees and affiliated financial advisors, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Preventing and detecting misconduct among our branded  28 ANNUAL REPORT 2009      Table of Contents franchisee advisors and our unbranded affiliated financial advisors who are not employees of our company and tend to be located in small, decentralized offices, present additional challenges. We also cannot assure that misconduct by our employees and affiliated financial advisors will not lead to a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  Legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could result in financial losses or harm our businesses.  We are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our operations, both domestically and internationally. Various regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our employees and independent financial advisors and to bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our employees or affiliated financial advisors, are improper. Pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings relating to aspects of our businesses and operations that are specific to us and proceedings that are typical of the industries and businesses in which we operate. Some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. In certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. See Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K — "Legal Proceedings." In or as a result of turbulent times such as those we have experienced, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings generally increase. Substantial legal liability in current or future legal or regulatory actions could have a material adverse financial effect or cause significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects.  A downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  Financial strength ratings, which various ratings organizations publish as a measure of an insurance company's ability to meet contract holder and policyholder obligations, are important to maintain public confidence in our products, the ability to market our products and our competitive position. A downgrade in our financial strength ratings, or the announced potential for a downgrade, could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including:   >reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and investment products;   >adversely affecting our relationships with our affiliated financial advisors and third-party distributors of our products;   >materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contract holders and policyholders;   >requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; and   >adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance or obtain reasonable pricing on reinsurance.  A downgrade in our credit ratings could also adversely impact our future cost and speed of borrowing and have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  In view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, including our competitors in the insurance industry, the ratings organizations have heightened the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions and have requested additional information from the companies that they rate. They may increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the ratings organizations' models for maintenance of ratings levels, or downgrade ratings applied to particular classes of securities or types of institutions. Ratings organizations may also become subject to tighter laws and regulations governing the ratings, which may in turn impact the ratings assigned to financial institutions.  We cannot predict what actions rating organizations may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating organizations, which could adversely affect our business. As with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be changed at any time and without any notice by the ratings organizations.  If our reserves for future policy benefits and claims or for our bank lending portfolio are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserve liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  We establish reserves as estimates of our liabilities to provide for future obligations under our insurance policies, annuities and investment certificate contracts. We also establish reserves as estimates of the potential for loan losses in our consumer lending portfolios. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation but, rather, are estimates of contract benefits or loan losses and related expenses we expect to incur over time. The assumptions and estimates we make in establishing reserves require certain judgments about future experience and, therefore, are inherently uncertain. We cannot determine with precision the actual amounts that we will pay for contract benefits, the timing of payments, or whether the assets supporting our stated reserves will increase to the levels we estimate before payment of benefits or claims. We monitor our reserve levels continually. If we were to  ANNUAL REPORT 2009 29      Table of Contents  conclude that our reserves are insufficient to cover actual or expected contract benefits or loan collections, we would be required to increase our reserves and incur income statement charges for the period in which we make the determination, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For more information on how we set our reserves, see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Morbidity rates or mortality rates that differ significantly from our pricing expectations could negatively affect profitability.  We set prices for RiverSource life insurance and some annuity products based upon expected claim payment patterns, derived from assumptions we make about our policyholders and contract holders, the morbidity rates, or likelihood of sickness, and mortality rates, or likelihood of death. The long-term profitability of these products depends upon how our actual experience compares with our pricing assumptions. For example, if morbidity rates are higher, or mortality rates are lower, than our pricing assumptions, we could be required to make greater payments under disability income insurance policies, chronic care riders and immediate annuity contracts than we had projected. The same holds true for long term care policies we previously underwrote to the extent of the risks that we have retained. If mortality rates are higher than our pricing assumptions, we could be required to make greater payments under our life insurance policies and annuity contracts with guaranteed minimum death benefits than we have projected.  The risk that our claims experience may differ significantly from our pricing assumptions is particularly significant for our long term care insurance products notwithstanding our ability to implement future price increases with regulatory approvals. As with life insurance, long term care insurance policies provide for long-duration coverage and, therefore, our actual claims experience will emerge over many years. However, as a relatively new product in the market, long term care insurance does not have the extensive claims experience history of life insurance and, as a result, our ability to forecast future claim rates for long term care insurance is more limited than for life insurance. We have sought to moderate these uncertainties to some extent by partially reinsuring long term care policies we previously underwrote and by limiting our present long term care insurance offerings to policies underwritten fully by unaffiliated third-party insurers, and we have also implemented rate increases on certain in force policies as described in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K — "Business — Our Segments — Protection — RiverSource Insurance Products — Long Term Care Insurance". We may be required to implement additional rate increases in the future and may or may not receive regulatory approval for the full extent and timing of any rate increases that we may seek.  We may face losses if there are significant deviations from our assumptions regarding the future persistency of our insurance policies and annuity contracts.  The prices and expected future profitability of our life insurance and deferred annuity products are based in part upon assumptions related to persistency, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force from one period to the next. Given the ongoing economic and market dislocations, future consumer persistency behaviors could vary materially from the past. The effect of persistency on profitability varies for different products. For most of our life insurance and deferred annuity products, actual persistency that is lower than our persistency assumptions could have an adverse impact on profitability, especially in the early years of a policy or contract, primarily because we would be required to accelerate the amortization of expenses we deferred in connection with the acquisition of the policy or contract.  For our long term care insurance and certain universal life insurance policies, actual persistency that is higher than our persistency assumptions could have a negative impact on profitability. If these policies remain in force longer than we assumed, then we could be required to make greater benefit payments than we had anticipated when we priced or partially reinsured these products. Some of our long term care insurance policies have experienced higher persistency and poorer loss experience than we had assumed, which led us to increase premium rates on certain of these policies.  Because our assumptions regarding persistency experience are inherently uncertain, reserves for future policy benefits and claims may prove to be inadequate if actual persistency experience is different from those assumptions. Although some of our products permit us to increase premiums during the life of the policy or contract, we cannot guarantee that these increases would be sufficient to maintain profitability. Additionally, some of these pricing changes require regulatory approval, which may not be forthcoming. Moreover, many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or limit those increases during the life of the policy or contract, while premiums on certain other products (primarily long term care insurance) may not be increased without prior regulatory approval. Significant deviations in experience from pricing expectations regarding persistency could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products.  We may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs, which would increase our expenses and reduce profitability.  Deferred acquisition costs ("DAC") represent the costs of acquiring new business, principally direct sales commissions and other distribution and underwriting costs that have been deferred on the sale of annuity, life and disability income insurance and, to a lesser extent, marketing and promotional expenses for personal  30 ANNUAL REPORT 2009      Table of Contents  auto and home insurance, and distribution expense for certain mutual fund products. For annuity and universal life products, DAC are amortized based on projections of estimated gross profits over amortization periods equal to the approximate life of the business. For other insurance products, DAC are generally amortized as a percentage of premiums over amortization periods equal to the premium-paying period. For certain mutual fund products, we generally amortize DAC over fixed periods on a straight-line basis.  Our projections underlying the amortization of DAC require the use of certain assumptions, including interest margins, mortality rates, persistency rates, maintenance expense levels and customer asset value growth rates for variable products. We periodically review and, where appropriate, adjust our assumptions. When we change our assumptions, we may be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC or to record a charge to increase benefit reserves.  For more information regarding DAC, see Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies — Deferred Acquisition Costs and Deferred Sales Inducement Costs" and " Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Recent Accounting Pronouncements."  We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims.  We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we use a broad range of measures to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which represents a diversion of resources that may be significant in amount and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce the protection of our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete.  We also may be subject to costly litigation in the event that another party alleges our operations or activities infringe upon such other party's intellectual property rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents or other protections that could be infringed by our products, methods, processes or services or could otherwise limit our ability to offer certain product features. Any party that holds such a patent could make a claim of infringement against us. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark, license usage rights, or misappropriation of trade secret rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial liability, and in some circumstances could be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses, or alternatively could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Breaches of security, or the perception that our technology infrastructure is not secure, could harm our business.  Our business requires the appropriate and secure utilization of client and other sensitive information. Our operations require the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Security breaches in connection with the delivery of our products and services, including products and services utilizing the Internet, as well as intrusions resulting from the efforts of "hackers" seeking the sensitive data we possess, and the trend toward broad consumer and general public notification of such incidents, could significantly harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Even if we successfully protect our technology infrastructure and the confidentiality of sensitive data, we could suffer harm to our business and reputation if attempted security breaches are publicized. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities, attempts to exploit vulnerabilities in our systems, data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology or other security measures protecting the networks used in connection with our products and services.  Protection from system interruptions and operating errors is important to our business. If we experience a sustained interruption to our telecommunications or data processing systems, or other failure in operational execution, it could harm our business.  System or network interruptions could delay and disrupt our ability to develop, deliver or maintain our products and services, causing harm to our business and reputation and resulting in loss of customers or revenue. Interruptions could be caused by operational failures arising from our implementation of new technology, as well from our maintenance of existing technology. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process transactions or provide products and services to our customers. These interruptions can include fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses,  ANNUAL REPORT 2009 31      Table of Contents  equipment failures, failures of internal or vendor software or systems and other events beyond our control. Further, we face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate or are component providers to our securities transactions and other product manufacturing and distribution activities. These risks are heightened by our deployment in response to both investor interest and evolution in the financial markets of increasingly sophisticated products, such as those which incorporate automatic asset re-allocation, long/short trading strategies or multiple portfolios or funds, and business-driven hedging, compliance and other risk management strategies. Any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely impact our ability to effect transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk.  Risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in identifying or mitigating risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including employee and financial advisor misconduct.  We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and will continue to do so. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. Many of our methods of managing risk and exposures are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. During periods of market volatility or due to unforeseen events, the historically derived correlations upon which these methods are based may not be valid. As a result, these methods may not accurately predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than what our models indicate. This could cause us to incur investment losses or cause our hedging and other risk management strategies to be ineffective. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible to us, which may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated.  Moreover, we are subject to the risks of errors and misconduct by our employees and affiliated financial advisors, such as fraud, non-compliance with policies, recommending transactions that are not suitable, and improperly using or disclosing confidential information. These risks are difficult to detect in advance and deter, and could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are further subject to the risk of nonperformance or inadequate performance of contractual obligations by third-party vendors of products and services that are used in our businesses. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. Insurance and other traditional risk-shifting tools may be held by or available to us in order to manage certain exposures, but they are subject to terms such as deductibles, coinsurance, limits and policy exclusions, as well as risk of counterparty denial of coverage, default or insolvency.  As a holding company, we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us to pay dividends and to meet our obligations.  We act as a holding company for our insurance and other subsidiaries. Dividends from our subsidiaries and permitted payments to us under our intercompany arrangements with our subsidiaries are our principal sources of cash to pay shareholder dividends and to meet our other financial obligations. These obligations include our operating expenses and interest and principal on our borrowings. If the cash we receive from our subsidiaries pursuant to dividend payment and intercompany arrangements is insufficient for us to fund any of these obligations, we may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of additional debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. If any of this happens, it could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.  Insurance, banking and securities laws and regulations regulate the ability of many of our subsidiaries (such as our insurance, banking and brokerage subsidiaries and our face-amount certificate company) to pay dividends or make other permitted payments. See Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K — "Regulation" as well as the information contained in Part II, Item 7 under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources." In addition to the various regulatory restrictions that constrain our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or make other permitted payments to our company, the rating organizations impose various capital requirements on our company and our insurance company subsidiaries in order for us to maintain our ratings and the ratings of our insurance subsidiaries. The value of assets on the company-level balance sheets of our subsidiaries is a significant factor in determining these restrictions and capital requirements. As asset values decline, our and our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or make other permitted payments can be reduced. Additionally, the various asset classes held by our subsidiaries, and used in determining required capital levels, are weighted differently or are restricted as to the proportion in which they may be held depending upon their liquidity, credit risk and other factors. Volatility in relative asset values among different asset classes can alter the proportion of our subsidiaries' holdings in those classes,  32 ANNUAL REPORT 2009      Table of Contents  which could increase required capital and constrain our and our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or make other permitted payments. The regulatory capital requirements and dividend-paying ability of our subsidiaries may also be affected by a change in the mix of products sold by such subsidiaries. For example, fixed annuities typically require more capital than variable annuities, and an increase in the proportion of fixed annuities sold in relation to variable annuities could increase the regulatory capital requirements of our life insurance subsidiaries. This may reduce the dividends or other permitted payments which could be made from those subsidiaries in the near term without the rating organizations viewing this negatively. Further, the capital requirements imposed upon our subsidiaries may be impacted by heightened regulatory scrutiny and intervention, which could negatively affect our and our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or make other permitted payments. Additionally, in the past we have found it necessary to provide support to certain of our subsidiaries in order to maintain adequate capital for regulatory or other purposes and we may provide such support in the future. The provision of such support could adversely affect our excess capital, liquidity, and the dividends or other permitted payments received from our subsidiaries.  The operation of our business in foreign markets and our investments in non-U.S. denominated securities and investment products subjects us to exchange rate and other risks in connection with earnings and income generated overseas.  While we are a U.S.-based company, a portion of our business operations occur outside of the U.S. and some of our investments are not denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, we are exposed to certain foreign currency exchange risks that could reduce U.S. dollar equivalent earnings as well as negatively impact our general account and other proprietary investment portfolios. Appreciation of the U.S. dollar could unfavorably affect net income from foreign operations, the value of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments and investments in foreign subsidiaries. In comparison, depreciation of the U.S. dollar could positively affect our net income from foreign operations and the value of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, though such depreciation could also diminish investor, creditor and ratings agency perceptions of our company compared to peer companies that have a relatively greater proportion of foreign operations or investments.  We may seek to mitigate these risks by employing various hedging strategies including entering into derivative contracts. Currency fluctuations, including the effect of changes in the value of U.S. dollar denominated investments that vary from the amounts ultimately needed to hedge our exposure to changes in the U.S. dollar equivalent of earnings and equity of these operations, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.  Changes in U.S. federal income or estate tax law could make some of our products less attractive to clients.  Many of the products we issue or on which our businesses are based (including both insurance products and non-insurance products) enjoy favorable treatment under current U.S. federal income or estate tax law. Changes in U.S. federal income or estate tax law could thus make some of our products less attractive to clients.  We are subject to tax contingencies that could adversely affect our provision for income taxes.  We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have significant business operations. These tax laws are complex and may be subject to different interpretations. We must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and must also make estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. In addition, changes to the Internal Revenue Code, administrative rulings or court decisions could increase our provision for income taxes.   Risks Relating to Our Common Stock  The market price of our shares may fluctuate.  The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:   >changes in expectations concerning our future financial performance and the future performance of the financial services industry in general, including financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts;   >differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts;   >our strategic moves and those of our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;   >changes in the regulatory framework of the financial services industry and regulatory action; and   >changes in general economic or market conditions.  Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  ANNUAL REPORT 2009 33      Table of Contents  Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the market value of our common stock.  Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making them unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others:   >a board of directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms;   >elimination of the right of our shareholders to act by written consent;   >rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings;   >the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; and   >limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors.  Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock.  We believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors time to assess any acquisition proposal. They are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of our company and our shareholders.       Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.