Item 1A. Risk Factors  The following is a discussion of the material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” included in Gallagher’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007:  Gallagher’s businesses, and therefore its results of operation and financial condition, may be adversely affected by the current disruption in the global credit markets and instability of financial systems.  Since the second half of 2007, the disruption in the global credit markets, the repricing of credit risk and the deterioration of the financial and real estate markets, particularly in the U.S. and Europe, have created increasingly difficult conditions for financial institutions. These conditions include greater volatility, significantly less liquidity, widening of credit spreads and a lack of price transparency in certain markets. In recent weeks the volatility has reached unprecedented levels and credit markets have been illiquid. These conditions have resulted in the failure of a number of financial institutions and unprecedented action by governmental authorities and central banks around the world. It is difficult to predict how long these conditions will exist and the extent to which Gallagher’s markets, products and business will be adversely affected.  These unprecedented disruptions in the current credit and financial markets have had a significant material adverse impact on a number of financial institutions and have limited access to capital and credit for many companies. These disruptions could make it more difficult for Gallagher to obtain financing for its operations or investments or increase the cost of obtaining financing.  Although Gallagher is not currently experiencing any limitation of access to its revolving credit facility and is not aware of any issues currently impacting the ability or willingness of the lenders under its revolving credit facility to honor their commitments to extend credit, the U.S. and global credit crisis could adversely affect its ability to borrow on its revolving credit facility in the future.  In addition, in October 2010, Gallagher’s revolving credit facility will expire. Continued disruption in U.S. and global credit markets could adversely affect Gallagher’s ability to renew this credit facility and any renewed facility may be under terms that are not as favorable as the current credit facility. Furthermore, other types of financing, such as bond financings, may be unavailable or only be available under unfavorable terms.  Accordingly, these conditions could adversely affect Gallagher’s financial condition and results of operations in future periods.    - 47 -    Table of Contents Gallagher could incur substantial losses if one of the commercial banks and financial institutions Gallagher uses in its operations would happen to fail.  Gallagher maintains cash balances, including restricted cash held in premium trust accounts, significantly in excess of the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits at various depository institutions. Gallagher also maintains cash balances in foreign banks and institutions. As the worldwide fallout from the credit crisis persists, the financial strength of some depository institutions has diminished and this trend may continue. If one or more of the depository institutions in which Gallagher maintains significant cash balances were to fail, Gallagher’s ability to access these funds might be temporarily or permanently limited, and Gallagher could face a material liquidity problem and potentially material financial losses.  Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds