Item 1A. Risk Factors  The following is a discussion of the material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” included in Gallagher’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008:  Gallagher is developing production plants that will have the ability to produce refined coal that may qualify for tax credits under IRC Section 45. These production plants may not be able to meet the requirements of IRC Section 45 and would therefore not produce tax credits to Gallagher or others.  IRC Section 45 provides a tax credit for the production and sale of refined coal. Gallagher owns 42% of Chem-Mod, LLC, which has developed technologies that reduce harmful emissions from coal-fired power plants. Although to date the IRS has issued little public guidance regarding the administration of the IRC Section 45 tax credit program and the restrictions on the availability of such credits, Gallagher believes that commercial facilities that produce clean-burning coal using the Chem-Mod technology qualify for tax credits under IRC Section 45. The IRS is expected to issue guidance by September 1, 2009, which will further clarify the requirements of IRC Section 45. Management has the authorization to invest up to $15.0 million in capital expenditures to develop production plants that will have the ability to produce refined coal. Certain utilities have expressed an interest in using The Chem-Mod™ Solution and Gallagher has committed to capital expenditures of approximately $4.0 million in the third quarter of 2009 to build the first facility. If other utilities express interest in using The Chem-Mod™ Solution, Gallagher is prepared to make additional capital expenditures of $10.0 million to $12.0 million in the third and fourth quarters of 2009 to build additional facilities.  There are significant uncertainties related to these investments, which must be favorably resolved in order for Gallagher to capitalize on these investments, including the release of favorable IRS guidance, the timely receipt by the utility of regulatory permits, completion of construction by December 31, 2009 and satisfaction of certain other emissions and pricing requirements. The IRS may challenge IRC Section 45 tax credits claimed by Gallagher based on any one of these or other conditions. In addition, Congress may modify or repeal IRC Section 45 so that these tax credits may not be available in the future. If Gallagher is not successful in claiming IRC Section 45 credits from these facilities, Gallagher may not be able to capitalize on its investments in Chem-Mod or the refined coal production facilities.    - 49 -    Table of Contents Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds