Item 1A. Risk Factors  The following is a discussion of the material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” included in Gallagher’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008:  A continuation or worsening of the current economic recession may adversely affect Gallagher’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any improvement in Gallagher’s results of operations and financial condition may lag an improvement in the economy.  The deterioration in the economy that occurred in fourth quarter 2008 and the first nine months of 2009 could adversely impact Gallagher during the remainder of 2009 and future years as a result of reductions in the overall amount of insurance coverage that its clients purchase due to reductions in their headcount, payroll, properties, market values of assets, etc. Such reductions could also adversely impact Gallagher’s 2009 and 2010 commission revenues when exposure audits by the carriers are performed and if subsequent downward premium adjustments are determined. The income effects of subsequent premium adjustments are recorded when the adjustments become known, and, as a result, any improvement in Gallagher’s results of operations and financial condition may lag an improvement in the economy. In addition, some of Gallagher’s clients may cease operations completely in the event of a prolonged deterioration in the economy.  Gallagher is investing significant amounts to develop production plants that will have the ability to produce refined coal that may potentially qualify for tax credits under IRC Section 45; however, there are significant uncertainties surrounding these investments including the release of favorable IRS guidance, the timely receipt by the utility of regulatory permits, completion of construction by December 31, 2009 and satisfaction of certain emissions reductions and pricing requirements.  IRC Section 45 provides a tax credit for the production and sale of refined coal from production plants that are put into service on or before December 31, 2009. Gallagher owns 42% of Chem-Mod, LLC, which has developed technologies (The Chem-Mod™ Solution) that reduce harmful emissions from coal-fired power plants. Gallagher intends to use The Chem-Mod™ Solution to develop, in conjunction with utility companies, up to eight production plants in 2009 that may qualify for IRC Section 45 tax credits. Gallagher has expended approximately $9.6 million to date, and has committed to make additional capital expenditures of $24.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2009 to complete the construction of these facilities.  To date, the IRS has issued little public guidance regarding the administration of the IRC Section 45 tax credit program and the restrictions on the availability of such credits. The IRS is expected to issue guidance by December 31, 2009, which is expected to further clarify the requirements of IRC Section 45.  There are significant uncertainties related to these investments, which must be favorably resolved in order for Gallagher to recoup these investments and generate earnings on them. These include the release of favorable IRS guidance, the timely receipt by the utility of regulatory permits, completion of construction by December 31, 2009 and satisfaction of certain emissions reductions and    - 50 -    Table of Contents pricing requirements. The IRS may challenge IRC Section 45 tax credits claimed by Gallagher based on any one of these or other conditions. Congress may modify or repeal IRC Section 45 so that these tax credits may not be available in the future. In addition, the utilities at which the technologies will be used are engineered to burn either coal or natural gas. If for any reason these utilities choose, in the future, to burn natural gas instead of coal, Gallagher could lose some or all of the expected benefit from this investment. If Gallagher is not successful in claiming IRC Section 45 credits from these facilities, Gallagher may not be able to recoup its investments in Chem-Mod or in these facilities or generate earnings on them.  Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds