ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS    Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2007 presents risk factors that may impact our future results. In light of recent developments in the mortgage, housing and secondary markets, the following risk factors should be read in conjunction with that discussion.   Potential Sale Transaction. In fiscal year 2007, we entered into an agreement to sell OOMC. On December 4, 2007, we agreed to terminate the agreement in light of the changing business environment for OOMC, as mutually acceptable alternatives for restructuring the original agreement could not be reached. We also announced that we would immediately terminate all remaining origination activities and pursue the sale of OOMC’s loan servicing activities.   Following the termination of its loan origination activities, OOMC will continue to carry out its servicing activities and collect servicing revenues as it does today. Because of the cessation of new originations, the volume of mortgage loans serviced will gradually decline as the aggregate principal amount of existing loans being serviced declines without replacement. The majority of servicing activities are carried out with respect to loans owned by third parties.   We have estimated the fair values of the servicing business and other assets, which resulted in an additional impairment for the second quarter ending October 31, 2007 of $123.0 million. Although we are actively pursuing the sale of our remaining loan servicing activities, it is possible that we will be unsuccessful in selling or selling at a price that does not result in further impairment.   Liquidity and Capital. We use capital primarily to fund working capital requirements, pay dividends and acquire businesses.   Market conditions and recent credit-rating downgrades have negatively impacted our ability to issue commercial paper. As a result, we had no commercial paper outstanding at October 31, 2007. As an alternative to commercial paper issuance, we have been borrowing under our unsecured revolving committed lines of credit (CLOCs) to support working capital requirements arising from off-season operating losses in our Tax Services and Business Services segments and operating losses from our mortgage businesses. We had    56    Table of Contents   borrowings totaling $1.6 billion outstanding under our CLOCs at October 31, 2007, of a total borrowing capacity of $2.0 billion. Subsequent to October 31, 2007, we drew additional funds on the CLOCs to bring total borrowings to $1.8 billion as of the date of this filing.   The CLOCs, among other things, require we maintain at least $650.0 million of Adjusted Net Worth, as defined in the agreement, on the last day of any fiscal quarter. On November 19, 2007, effective October 31, 2007, the CLOCs were amended to, among other things, require $450.0 million of Adjusted Net Worth, for the fiscal quarters ending October 31, 2007 and January 31, 2008. Before the end of the second quarter, we initiated efforts to seek an amendment to the Minimum Net Worth Requirement (i) in light of the possibility that we might not have met the Minimum Net Worth Requirement for the fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2007, (ii) to obtain flexibility for purposes of negotiating a sale of OOMC, and (iii) in light of the possibility that, without the amendment, we would not be in compliance with the Minimum Net Worth Covenant as of January 31, 2008 without taking steps to raise additional capital. When financial results for the six months ended October 31, 2007 were finalized, we determined that we had an Adjusted Net Worth of $544.3 million at October 31, 2007, primarily due to operating losses of our discontinued operations.   A further disruption in credit markets, or a violation of covenants under our CLOCs, could adversely affect our access to these funds. In addition, it is possible that the borrowing capacity under our CLOCs may not be sufficient to meet our financing needs. To meet our future financing needs we may be required issue additional debt or equity securities.   As part of our loan servicing responsibilities, we are required to advance funds to cover delinquent scheduled principal and interest payments to security holders, as well as to cover delinquent tax and insurance payments and other costs required to protect the investors’ interest in the collateral securing the loans. Generally, servicing advances are recoverable from either the mortgagor, the insurer of the loan or the investor through the non-recourse provision of the loan servicing contract. In light of increased delinquencies of mortgage loans that we service, the amount of funds we are required to advance on a monthly basis has been increasing. Servicing advances and related assets totaled $821.4 million, $510.2 million and $445.4 million at October, 31, 2007, July 31, 2007 and April 30, 2007, respectively. We expect the volume of servicing advances to increase, although we cannot know the volume of servicing advances that are likely to be required in any given period.   Delinquencies and corresponding servicing advances increase significantly when adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs) initially reset. At October 31, 2007 OOMC serviced 340.2 million mortgage loans, of which approximately 63% are ARMs. OOMC is actively working with borrowers to minimize delinquencies, including modifying loans and notifying borrowers of upcoming rate changes prior to their reset date.   On October 1, 2007, OOMC entered into a facility to fund servicing advances, which provides funding of up to $400.0 million. On November 16, 2007, this agreement was amended to increase the amount of funding available from $400.0 million to $750.0 million. To meet our servicing advance obligations, we may need to increase the size of our facility that funds servicing advances, obtain other servicing advance financing or sell portions of our mortgage servicing rights. It is possible that we (i) may not be able to obtain additional servicing advance financing, (ii) may not be able to sell mortgage servicing rights within a timeframe that would allow us to reduce our servicing advance obligations on a timely basis or (iii) may be forced to sell mortgage servicing rights at prices that will result in further impairment.   In April 2007, we obtained a $500.0 million credit facility to provide funding for the $500.0 million of 81/2% Senior Notes which were due April 16, 2007. This facility matures on December 20, 2007. We have a signed commitment to extend $250.0 million of this to the end of April 2008. We have also received a verbal credit approval to extend the remaining $250.0 million, with a paydown schedule from January 31, 2008 to February 28, 2008. See additional discussion in note 4 to the condensed consolidated financial statements.   Market and Credit Risks. Our day-to-day operating activities of originating and selling mortgage loans have many aspects of interest rate risk. Additionally, the valuation of our retained residual interests and mortgage servicing rights includes many estimates and assumptions made by management surrounding interest rates, prepayment speeds and credit losses. Variation in interest rates or the factors underlying our assumptions could affect our results of operations.   Conditions in the non-prime mortgage industry continued to be challenging into fiscal year 2008. Our mortgage operations, as well as the entire industry, were impacted by deteriorating conditions in the secondary market, where reduced investor demand for loan purchases, higher investor yield requirements and increased    57    Table of Contents   estimates for future losses reduced the value of non-prime loans. Under these conditions non-prime originators generally reported significant increases in losses and many were unable to meet their financial obligations. Conditions in the non-prime mortgage industry resulted in significant losses in our mortgage operations during fiscal year 2007 and 2008. The mortgage industry continues to be extremely volatile, which could result in further impairments to our residual interests and loans held for sale, or further losses as a result of obligations to repurchase loans previously sold.   We held mortgage loans for investment totaling $1.1 billion at October 31, 2007. The overall credit quality of mortgage loans held for investment is impacted by the strength of the U.S. economy and local economic conditions, including residential housing prices. Economic trends that negatively affect housing prices and the job market could result in deterioration in credit quality of our mortgage loan portfolio and a decline in the value of associated collateral. As discussed above, future ARM resets could also lead to increased delinquencies in our mortgage loans held for investment. Recent trends in the residential mortgage loan market reflect an increase in loan delinquencies and declining collateral values. As a result of similar trends in our loan portfolio, we recorded loan loss provisions totaling $9.8 million during the quarter ended October 31, 2007.   To the extent that market conditions remain volatile, or fail to improve, our mortgage business may continue to incur operating losses and asset impairments. See additional discussion of the performance of our mortgage operations in Part I, Item 2, under “Discontinued Operations.” If adverse trends in the residential mortgage loan market continue, including adverse trends in our mortgage loan portfolio specifically, we could incur additional significant loan loss provisions.   Regulatory Environment – Banking. H&R Block, Inc. is subject to a three percent minimum ratio of adjusted tangible capital to adjusted total assets, as defined by the OTS. We fell below the three percent minimum ratio at April 30, 2007. We notified the OTS of our failure to meet this requirement, and on May 29, 2007, the OTS issued a Supervisory Directive. We submitted a revised capital plan to the OTS on July 19, 2007, in which we expected to meet the three percent minimum ratio at April 30, 2008. The OTS accepted our revised capital plan.   The Supervisory Directive included additional conditions that we will be required to meet in addition to the Master Commitment. The significant additional conditions included in the Supervisory Directive are as follows: (1) requires HRB Bank to extend its compliance with a minimum 12.0% leverage ratio through fiscal year 2012; (2) requires H&R Block, Inc. to comply with the Master Commitment at all times, except for the projected capital levels and compliance with the three percent minimum ratio, as provided in the fiscal year 2008 and 2009 capital adequacy projections presented to the OTS on July 19, 2007; (3) institutes reporting requirements to the OTS quarterly and monthly by the Board of Directors and management, respectively; and (4) requires HRB Bank’s Board of Directors to have an independent chairperson and at least the same number of outside directors as inside directors.   Operating losses of our discontinued operations for the first half of fiscal year 2008 were higher than projected in our revised capital plan that was submitted to the OTS in July 2007. As a result, our capital levels are lower than those projections. H&R Block, Inc. continued to be below the three percent minimum ratio during our second quarter, and had adjusted tangible capital of negative $644.4 million, and a requirement of $177.5 million to be in compliance at October 31, 2007.   In November 2007, the OTS directed us to submit a new revised capital plan no later than January 15, 2008. At this time, we do not expect to be in compliance with the three percent minimum ratio at April 30, 2008. We do not expect to be in a position to repurchase treasury shares until sometime after fiscal year 2009. Achievement of the capital plan depends on future events and circumstances, the outcome of which cannot be assured. If we are not in a position to cure deficiencies and if operating results continue to be below our plan, a resulting failure could impair our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock, acquire businesses or pay dividends.   Failure to meet the conditions under the Master Commitment and the Supervisory Directive, including capital levels of H&R Block, Inc., could result in the OTS taking further regulatory actions, such as a supervisory agreement, cease-and-desist orders and civil monetary penalties. The OTS could also require us to sell assets, which could negatively impact our financial statements. At this time, the financial impact, if any, of additional regulatory actions cannot be determined. See note 6 to the condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information.    58    Table of Contents   Regulatory Environment – Tax Services. The Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) was enacted in 1969 to ensure that a small number of high-income taxpayers could not use special tax deductions to substantially eliminate their tax. Because this initial legislation was not indexed for inflation, an increasing number of taxpayers are becoming subject to AMT. Congressional action is pending which would modify the AMT legislation to limit the number of affected taxpayers for the 2007 tax year. Until such time as pending Congressional action becomes law, the IRS has indicated it may need to postpone processing of tax returns scheduled to begin in mid-January 2008, and has further stated it will need approximately seven weeks to revise and test forms reflecting changes that result from the legislation. Delays by the IRS in return-processing may result in a shifting of our revenues from our fiscal third quarter to our fourth quarter, could potentially result in a decline in the number of tax returns we prepare during the 2008 fiscal year, and could cause us to incur additional operating expenses. The ultimate outcome of pending Congressional action and the ultimate effect to our business and financial results is uncertain.   Other than the items discussed above, there have been no material changes in our risk factors from those reported at April 30, 2007 in our annual Report on Form 10-K.      ­ ­   ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 