ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS       Alternative Practice Structure with Public Accounting Firms. As previously disclosed, under an alternative practice structure arrangement, RSM and M&P and other public accounting firms (collectively, “the Attest Firms”) market their services jointly and provide services to a significant number of common clients. Through an administrative services agreement, RSM also provides operational and administrative support services to the Attest Firms, including accounting, payroll, human resources, marketing, administrative services and personnel, and office space and equipment. In return for these services, RSM receives a management fee and reimbursement of certain costs, mainly for the use of RSM-owned or leased real estate, property and equipment. If the RSM/Attest Firms relationship under the alternative practice structure were to be terminated, RSM could lose key employees and clients and may not be able to recoup its costs associated with the infrastructure used to provide the operational and administrative support services to the Attest Firms. A separation from M&P could result in reduced revenue, increased costs and reduced earnings and, if sufficiently significant, impairment of our investment in RSM.   On July 21, 2009, M&P provided notice of its intent to terminate the administrative services agreement between RSM and M&P. The effect of the notice will be to terminate the alternative practice structure on February 16, 2010, unless revoked or modified prior to that time. RSM and M&P are engaged in arbitration to determine several of their rights and responsibilities under their contracts, including rights of RSM relating to noncompete provisions of the contracts. In addition, the parties have held a series of meetings and discussions regarding several aspects of the relationship between RSM and M&P. If the parties do not reach an agreement to continue their relationship, RSM intends to seek alternative attest firms with which to affiliate and to continue to directly provide a full range of tax and business consulting services. The extent of the impact of a separation by M&P cannot be determined at this time, although it could be material to RSM’s financial condition and results of operations.    26    Table of Contents   There have been no other material changes in our risk factors from those reported at April 30, 2009 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.      ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 