ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS       Our businesses may be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally.   Our business may be materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally, and these conditions may change suddenly and dramatically. For example, the capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption, which have reached unprecedented levels this year. Difficulties in the mortgage and broader credit markets in the United States and elsewhere resulted in a relatively sudden and substantial decrease in the availability of credit and a corresponding increase in funding costs. We cannot predict how long these conditions will exist or how our business or financial statements may be affected. Increases in interest rates or credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit, such as has occurred recently, may affect our ability to borrow in excess of our current commitments on a secured or unsecured basis, which may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. This could increase our cost of funding, which could reduce our profitability.   In addition, the downturn in the residential housing market, rising unemployment and an increase in mortgage defaults has, and may continue, to negatively impact our operating results. An economic recession will likely reduce the ability of our borrowers to repay mortgage loans, and declining home values would increase the severity of loss we may incur in the event of default.   In response to the current financial markets, legislation has been proposed to allow mortgage loan “cram-downs,” which would empower courts to modify the terms of mortgage loans including a reduction in the principal amount to reflect lower underlying property values. This could result in our writing down the balance of those mortgage loans in bankruptcy to reflect their current collateral values. The availability of principal reductions or other mortgage loan modifications could make bankruptcy a more attractive option for troubled borrowers, leading to increased bankruptcy filings and accelerated defaults.   In addition to mortgage loans, we also extend secured and unsecured credit to other customers, including refund anticipation loans and Emerald Advance lines of credit to our tax preparation customers. We may incur significant losses on credit we extend, which in turn could reduce our profitability.   Other than the item discussed above, there have been no material changes in our risk factors from those reported at April 30, 2008 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.    41    Table of Contents    ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 