ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS       The elimination of the IRS debt indicator may increase the risk of default on RALs and may reduce our profitability.     In August 2010, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) announced that, as of the beginning of the upcoming tax season, it would no longer furnish the debt indicator (DI), to tax preparers or financial institutions. The DI is an underwriting tool that lenders use when considering whether to loan money to taxpayers who apply for a refund anticipation loan (RAL), which is short term loan, secured by the taxpayer’s federal tax refund. As a result of the IRS decision, approval rates and loan amounts will likely be lower, and lenders may issue RALs that have a greater probability of not being repaid. Our participation interests in any RALs issued without the DI used in the credit assessment of the client may have a higher risk of default, which could increase our bad debt expense and reduce our profitability. During the fiscal year ended April 30, 2010, our revenues from RAL participations (including RALs which were based on underwriting standards that included use of the DI) totaled $146.2 million. RAL volumes are expected to decline in fiscal year 2011, and alternate products may have lower margins resulting in reduced profitability. We estimate that the impact of the discontinuation of the DI will reduce our profitability by approximately $0.05 per diluted share. Our estimate is based on a number of assumptions and actual results could differ.     34    Table of Contents    On October 15, 2010, we filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri for injunctive relief against HSBC Bank USA, National Association and certain of its affiliates (collectively, HSBC) seeking to require HSBC to perform its contractual obligations to offer RALs in our retail offices. At the time of the filing of our Form 10-Q for the period ended October 31, 2010, the ultimate outcome of this matter, its effect on our ability to offer RALs in our retail offices and its impact on our financial results is unknown.   There have been no other material changes in our risk factors from those reported at April 30, 2010 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.      ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 