ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOther than the risk factors discussed below, there have been no material changes in our risk factors from those reported at April 30, 2013 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.Federal Reserve capital requirements may restrict our capital allocation strategies and we are therefore exploring alternatives to cease being an SLHC. If we were to cease being an SLHC, the means we use to deliver financial services and products to our customers and the revenues and profitability of those offerings could be adversely impacted.Our subsidiary, HRB Bank, is a federal savings bank. Our Holding Companies are SLHCs because they control HRB Bank.The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve to promulgate minimum capital requirements for SLHCs, including leverage and risk-based capital requirements that are no less stringent than those applicable to insured depository institutions at the time the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted. On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve approved the Basel III Capital Rules, which implement a revised definition of regulatory capital, a new common equity tier 1 minimum capital requirement and a higher minimum tier 1 capital requirement (Revised Capital Rules). The rule also requires certain levels of equity for the payment of dividends and bonuses, and amends the methodologies for risk-weighting assets. The Revised Capital Rules will become effective for us as of January 1, 2015. See Part I, Item 2 under "Regulatory Environment" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Item 1, “Regulation and Supervision - Bank and Holding Companies” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as of April 30, 2013 for details of the new requirements.The Federal Reserve Bank, the Company's primary banking regulator, has issued guidance set forth in Supervisory Letter SR 09-4 (March 27, 2009) regarding the payment of dividends, stock redemptions and stock repurchases by bank holding companies. Pursuant to Supervisory Letter SR 11-11 (July 21, 2011), the Federal Reserve has directed examiners to apply the principles of SR 09-4 to SLHCs. Pursuant to SR 09-4, we have committed to provide notice to the Federal Reserve prior to paying dividends or repurchasing shares.The Revised Capital Rules would require our Holding Companies to retain significant additional capital, even though HRB Bank has regulatory capital substantially above the “well capitalized” level. At this time, we do not foresee regulatory flexibility in this regard in light of the Federal Reserve's views of the statutory requirements imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act. Accordingly, while our current belief is that dividends at current levels would continue to be permitted as long as HRB Bank remains well capitalized, the Federal Reserve will closely supervise and likely restrict our other capital allocation decisions, including stock repurchases, acquisitions, and other forms of strategic investment.In July 2013, HRB Bank and Block Financial entered into a P&A Agreement with Republic Bank subject to various closing conditions, including the finalization of various operating agreements and receipt of certain required approvals. Prior to entering into the P&A Agreement, Republic Bank, which currently operates under a state bank charter and is regulated primarily by the FDIC, filed an application with the OCC for approval to convert to a national banking association. Approval and completion of this conversion were conditions to closing the P&A Transaction. In October 2013, Republic Bank informed us that it had withdrawn its application for the conversion and its application for approval of the P&A Transaction, which required that the conversion be approved. As a result, HRB Bank and Block Financial provided notice to Republic Bank of termination of the P&A Agreement.We plan to continue offering financial services and products to our clients through HRB Bank during the 2014 tax season. We will continue to explore alternatives for delivering financial products and services to our customers while ceasing to be regulated as an SLHC; however, we cannot predict the timing or the likelihood of ceasing to be regulated as an SLHC.H&R Block Q2 FY2014 Form 10-Q43Table of ContentsWe face substantial litigation in connection with our various business activities, and such litigation may damage our reputation, impair our product offerings or result in material liabilities and losses.We have been named and from time to time will likely continue to be named, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, actions or inquiries by state attorneys general, and other litigation arising in connection with our various business activities, including relating to our various service and product offerings. We also grant our franchisees a limited license to use our registered service marks and, accordingly, there is risk that one or more of the franchisees may be identified as being controlled by us. Third parties, regulators or courts may seek to hold us responsible for the actions or failures to act by our franchisees. Adverse outcomes related to litigation could result in substantial damages and could cause our earnings to decline. Negative public opinion could also result from our subsidiaries’ actual or alleged conduct in such claims, possibly damaging our reputation, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business prospects and cause the market price of our securities to decline.In addition, we have been sued, and certain of our competitors have been sued, in connection with the offering of different types of refund transfer products. Our version of a refund transfer is referred to as a RAC. One court issued a ruling, which is not subject to appellate review, that a competitor’s specific version of a refund transfer product should be considered a loan, and subject to truth-in-lending and other related laws. Another court, in its findings of fact, held that a different competitor's products that were positioned as refund transfer products were in fact loans. Another competitor recently entered into a settlement agreement, subject to final court approval, involving similar claims. We believe there are factual and legal differences that distinguish us and our RAC product from the various refund transfer products offered by our competitors. Revenues from our RAC product totaled $158 million in fiscal year 2013; any requirement that materially alters our offering of RACs, including limitations on the fees we charge or disclosure requirements that could reduce the demand for these products, could have a material adverse impact on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 