ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS      Other than the risk factors discussed below, there have been no material changes in our risk factors from those reported at April 30, 2012 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Proposed Federal Reserve capital requirements may restrict our capital allocation strategies and we are therefore exploring alternatives to cease being a SLHC. If we were to cease being a SLHC, the means we use to deliver financial products and services to our customers and the profitability of those offerings could be adversely impacted.  Our subsidiary, HRB Bank, is a federal savings bank chartered under the Home Owner’s Loan Act of 1933, as amended. Our Holding Companies are SLHCs because they control HRB Bank.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve to promulgate minimum capital requirements for SLHCs, including leverage and risk-based capital requirements that are no less stringent than those applicable to insured depository institutions at the time the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted. On June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve issued a notice of proposed rulemaking on regulatory capital requirements, implementing changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act and aspects of the Basel III regulatory capital reforms, portions of which would apply to our Holding Companies (“Proposed Capital Rules”). The OCC, which regulates HRB Bank, and the FDIC joined the Federal Reserve in requesting comments on the Proposed Capital Rules. The comment period expired on October 22, 2012. We provided formal comments on the Proposed Capital Rules. It is currently unclear what the regulatory capital requirements for SLHCs will be and when such capital requirements will become effective. The Federal Reserve announced on November 9, 2012 that the implementation would be postponed beyond January 1, 2013 to an unspecified date.  In connection with its first examination of the Company, the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, the Company’s primary banking regulator, has requested that the Company include in its policies the guidance set forth in Supervisory Letter SR 09-4 (March 27, 2009) regarding the payment of dividends, stock redemptions and stock repurchases by bank holding companies. In Supervisory Letter SR 11-11 (July 21, 2011), the Federal Reserve described the supervisory approach it would use to examine SLHCs and directed examiners to apply the principles of SR 09-4 to SLHCs.  This guidance would require our Holding Companies to retain significant additional capital, even though HRB Bank has regulatory capital substantially above the “well capitalized” level. At this time, we do not foresee regulatory flexibility in this regard in light of the Federal Reserve’s views of the statutory requirements    -45-     imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act. Accordingly, while our current belief is that dividends at current levels would continue to be permitted as long as HRB Bank remains well capitalized, the Federal Reserve will closely supervise and likely restrict other capital allocation decisions, including stock repurchases, acquisitions, and other forms of strategic investment. We believe that such regulatory constraints are inconsistent with our strategic plans, operational needs, and growth objectives.  We are in the process of evaluating alternative means of ceasing to be an SLHC, in which case we would no longer be subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve as an SLHC. In connection with that evaluation, we are exploring alternatives to continue delivering financial products and services to our customers.  Our evaluation of alternatives is in its early stages and therefore we cannot predict the timing, the circumstances, or the likelihood of us ceasing to be regulated as an SLHC, or whether cessation of SLHC status would have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  We face substantial litigation in connection with our various business activities, and such litigation may damage our reputation, impair our product offerings or result in material liabilities and losses.  We, and/or our subsidiaries, have been named and from time to time will likely continue to be named, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, actions or inquiries by state attorneys general, and other litigation arising in connection with our various business activities. Adverse outcomes related to litigation could result in substantial damages and could cause our earnings to decline. Negative public opinion could also result from our subsidiaries’ actual or alleged conduct in such claims, possibly damaging our reputation, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business prospects and cause the market price of our stock to decline.  In addition, a state appellate court issued a ruling, which is subject to a pending request for additional appellate review, that a competitor’s deferral of tax preparation fees in connection with its refund transfer product was an extension of credit requiring truth in lending disclosures. We believe there are factual and legal differences that distinguish us and our RAC product and, as such, that we are not bound by the court’s decision. However, any requirement that materially alters our offering of RACs could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  We rely on a single vendor or a limited number of vendors to provide certain key products or services, and the inability of these key vendors to meet our needs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Historically we have contracted, and in the future will continue to contract, with a single vendor or a limited number of vendors to provide support for our tax, financial and other products and services. As with any vendor we utilize, we are vulnerable to vendor error, service inefficiencies, service interruptions or service delays; however, our sensitivity to any of these issues is heightened (1) due to the seasonality of our business, and (2) with respect to any vendor that we utilize for the provision of any such product or service that has specialized expertise, is a sole provider, or whose indemnification obligations are limited. If such a vendor is unable to meet our needs in a timely manner or if the products or services provided by such a vendor are terminated or otherwise delayed because the vendor fails to perform adequately, is no longer in business, experiences shortages, or discontinues a certain product or service that we utilize, or if we are not able to develop alternative sources for these products and services quickly and cost-effectively, it could result in a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.    -46-      ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 