ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOther than the risk factor discussed below, there have been no material changes in our risk factors from those reported at April 30, 2013 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Federal Reserve capital requirements may restrict our capital allocation strategies and we are therefore exploring alternatives to cease being an SLHC. If we were to cease being an SLHC, the means we use to deliver financial services and products to our customers and the revenues and profitability of those offerings could be adversely impacted.Our subsidiary, HRB Bank, is a federal savings bank. Our Holding Companies are SLHCs because they control HRB Bank.The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve to promulgate minimum capital requirements for SLHCs, including leverage and risk-based capital requirements that are no less stringent than those applicable to insured depository institutions at the time the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted. On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve approved the Basel III Capital Rules, which implement a revised definition of regulatory capital, a new common equity tier 1 minimum capital requirement and a higher minimum tier 1 capital requirement. The rule also requires certain levels of equity for the payment of dividends and bonuses, and amends the methodologies for risk-weighting assets. The Revised Capital Rules will become effective for us as of January 1, 2015. See Part I, Item 2 under "Regulatory Environment" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Item 1, “Regulation and Supervision - Bank and Holding Companies” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as of April 30, 2013 for details of the new requirements.The Federal Reserve Bank, the Company's primary banking regulator, has issued guidance set forth in Supervisory Letter SR 09-4 (March 27, 2009) regarding the payment of dividends, stock redemptions and stock repurchases by bank holding companies. Pursuant to Supervisory Letter SR 11-11 (July 21, 2011), the Federal Reserve has directed H&R Block Q1 FY2014 Form 10-Q43Table of Contentsexaminers to apply the principles of SR 09-4 to SLHCs. Pursuant to SR 09-4, we have committed to provide notice to the Federal Reserve prior to paying dividends or repurchasing shares.The Revised Capital Rules would require our Holding Companies to retain significant additional capital, even though HRB Bank has regulatory capital substantially above the “well capitalized” level. At this time, we do not foresee regulatory flexibility in this regard in light of the Federal Reserve's views of the statutory requirements imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act. Accordingly, while our current belief is that dividends at current levels would continue to be permitted as long as HRB Bank remains well capitalized, the Federal Reserve will closely supervise and likely restrict our other capital allocation decisions, including stock repurchases, acquisitions, and other forms of strategic investment. On July 11, 2013, we entered into the P&A Agreement with Republic Bank. Simultaneously with any closing, HRB Bank will convert into a national banking association, merge with and into Block Financial, surrender its bank charter, and cease to operate as a separate legal entity. At that time, HRB and Block Financial would no longer be savings and loan holding companies subject to regulatory oversight of the Federal Reserve or related regulatory capital requirements. See additional discussion in Part I, Item 1, note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. We plan to continue to offer financial products and services to our clients subsequent to HRB Bank ceasing operations and we are currently negotiating additional agreements with Republic Bank, including an MSA Agreement and a related RPA Agreement, under which Republic Bank will serve as the bank offering H&R Block-branded financial services and products, and we will service and administer such financial services and products for Republic Bank.The obligations of the parties to complete the P&A Transaction are subject to the fulfillment of numerous conditions including regulatory approval and agreement upon, execution and delivery of the MSA Agreement and the RPA Agreement. The P&A Transaction will not be consummated unless the parties can agree on the terms and conditions of the MSA Agreement and RPA Agreement, and we can provide no assurances when or if the parties will be able to do so. Additionally, we cannot be certain when or if these conditions will be satisfied, and therefore we cannot predict the timing or the likelihood of completing the P&A Transaction and ceasing to be regulated as an SLHC. ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 