ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe face substantial litigation in connection with our various business activities, and such litigation may damage our reputation, impair our product offerings or result in material liabilities and losses.We have been named and from time to time will likely continue to be named, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, actions or inquiries by state attorneys general, and other litigation arising in connection with our various business activities, including relating to our various service and product offerings. We also grant our franchisees a limited license to use our registered trademarks and, accordingly, there is risk that one or more of the franchisees may be identified as being controlled by us. Third parties, regulators or courts may seek to hold us responsible for the actions or failures to act by our franchisees. Adverse outcomes related to litigation could result in substantial damages and could cause our earnings to decline. Negative public opinion could also result from our subsidiaries' actual or alleged conduct in such claims, possibly damaging our reputation, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business prospects and cause the market price of our securities to decline.In addition, we have been sued, and certain of our competitors have been sued, in connection with the offering of different types of refund transfer products. Further, we have received an inquiry from the California Attorney General requesting information regarding our refund transfer product, the RAC. In a case involving one of our competitors, a California appellate court affirmed a trial court's ruling that the competitor's specific version of a refund transfer product was subject to truth-in-lending and other related laws. Following the appellate court's ruling, the case was denied further appellate review. We believe there are differences that distinguish our RAC product from the product that was the subject of the competitor's case described above. Revenues from our RAC product totaled $181 million in fiscal year 2014; any requirement that materially alters our offering of RACs, including limitations on the fees we charge or disclosure requirements that could reduce the demand for these products, could have a material adverse impact on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.There have been no other material changes in our risk factors from those reported at April 30, 2014 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.H&R Block, Inc. | Q2 FY2015 Form 10-Q43Table of ContentsITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 