Item 1A. Risk Factors   In addition to the other information set forth in this Report, you should carefully consider the risks discussed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, under the headings “Item 1. Business — Competition, Marketing Arrangements and Applicable Laws and Regulations,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” which risks could materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition or future results. Except for the risk factor set forth below, there have been no material changes in the Company’s risk factors from those described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.  Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas drilling and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation.   On February 26, 2009, the White House released President Obama’s budget proposal for the fiscal year 2010. Among the changes contained in the budget proposal is the elimination of certain key United States federal income tax preferences currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to (i) the elimination of the immediate expensing of intangible drilling costs and (ii) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties.   On April 23, 2009, the Oil Industry Tax Break Repeal Act of 2009 was introduced in the Senate and includes many of the proposals outlined in the President’s budget proposal. It is unclear whether any such changes will actually be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of the budget proposal, the senate bill or any other similar change in United States federal income tax law could represent an extremely significant reduction in the tax benefits that have historically applied to certain investments in oil and gas properties, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.     Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds