Item 1A. Risk Factors   In addition to the other information set forth in this Report, you should carefully consider the risks discussed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, under the headings “Item 1. Business — Competition, Marketing Arrangements and Applicable Laws and Regulations,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” which risks could materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition or future results. Except for the risk factor set forth below, there have been no material changes in the Company’s risk factors from those described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the six months ended June 30, 2010.   The risk factor below is intended to replace the risk factor in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 entitled “Our indebtedness could restrict our operations and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions.”  We have substantial indebtedness and may incur substantially more debt. Higher levels of indebtedness make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business.   We have incurred debt amounting to approximately $688.6 million as of September 30, 2010. At September 30, 2010, the borrowing base under our credit facility was $1.2 billion. At September 30, 2010, we had $807.5 million of available borrowing capacity. On October 7, 2010, in connection with the closing of the Marbob acquisition, we entered into an amendment to our credit facility to increase the borrowing base from $1.2 billion to $2.0 billion. Pro forma at September 30, 2010, after taking into account the closing of the Marbob acquisition, the resolution of the Marbob preferential right dispute, the closing of the credit facility amendment, the private placement and estimated related transaction costs, we estimate our outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility would have been approximately $1.5 billion and our availability under our credit facility would have been approximately $470 million.   As a result of our indebtedness, we will need to use a portion of our cash flow to pay interest, which will reduce the amount we will have available to finance our operations and other business activities and could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our indebtedness under our credit facility is at a variable interest rate, and so a rise in interest rates will generate greater interest expense to the extent we do not have applicable interest rate fluctuation hedges. The amount of our debt may also cause us to be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business.   We may incur substantially more debt in the future. The indentures governing our outstanding 8.625 percent unsecured senior notes due 2017 contain restrictions on our incurrence of additional indebtedness. These restrictions, however, are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, we could incur substantial additional indebtedness in compliance with these restrictions. Moreover, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness under the indentures.   Our ability to meet our debt obligations and other expenses will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many of which we are unable to control. If our cash flow is not sufficient to service our debt, we may be required to refinance debt, sell assets or sell additional shares of common stock on terms that we may not find attractive if it may be done at all. Further, our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants relating to our indebtedness could result in a default under that indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  62    Table of Contents     Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds