Item 1A. Risk Factors   In addition to the other information set forth in this Report, you should carefully consider the risks discussed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, under the headings “Item 1. Business – Competition, Marketing Arrangements and Applicable Laws and Regulations,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” which risks could materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition or future results. Except for the risk factor set forth below, there have been no material changes in the Company’s risk factors from those described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.   Our estimates of proved reserves have been prepared under new SEC rules which went into effect for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009, which may make comparisons to prior periods difficult and could limit our ability to book additional proved undeveloped reserves in the future.   Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 presents estimates of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2009, which have been prepared and presented under new SEC rules. These new rules are effective for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009, and require SEC reporting companies to prepare their reserves estimates using revised reserve definitions and revised pricing based on a 12-month unweighted average of the first-day-of-the-month pricing. The previous rules required that reserve estimates be calculated using last-day-of-the-year pricing. The pricing that was used for estimates of our reserves as of December 31, 2009 was based on an unweighted average twelve month West Texas Intermediate posted price of $57.65 per Bbl for oil and a Henry Hub spot natural gas price of $3.87 per MMBtu for natural gas. As a result of this change in pricing methodology, direct comparisons of our previously-reported reserves amounts may be more difficult.   Another impact of the new SEC rules is a general requirement that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. This new rule has limited and may continue to limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program, particularly as we develop our significant acreage in West Texas and Southeast New Mexico. Moreover, we may be required to write down our proved undeveloped reserves if we do not drill on those reserves within the required five-year timeframe.   Accordingly, while the estimates of our proved reserves and related PV-10 and Standardized Measure at December 31, 2009 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 were prepared based on what we and our independent reserve engineers believe to be reasonable interpretations of the new SEC rules, those estimates could differ materially from any estimates we might prepare applying future interpretive guidance from the SEC.   The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.   The United States Congress recently adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, including us, that participate in that market. The new legislation was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010 and requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. The CFTC has also proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets, although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the CFTC will adopt those rules or include comparable provisions in its rulemaking under the new legislation. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including  62    Table of Contents  through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our results of operations.     Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds