Item 1A. Risk Factors  In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, you should carefully consider the risks discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, under the headings “Item 1. Business – Competition,” “— Marketing Arrangements” and “— Applicable Laws and Regulations,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” which risks could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. Except for the risk factor set forth below, there have been no material changes in our risk factors from those described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. The risks described in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or future results.  Recently Proposed Rules Regulating Air Emissions from Oil and Natural Gas Operations Could Cause Us to Incur Increased Capital Expenditures and Operating Costs  On July 28, 2011, the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) proposed rules that would establish new air emission controls for oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations. Specifically, EPA’s proposed rule package includes New Source Performance Standards to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds (“VOCs”) and a separate set of emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with oil and natural gas production and processing activities. EPA’s proposal would require the reduction of VOC emissions from oil and natural gas production facilities by mandating the use of “green completions” for hydraulic fracturing, which requires the operator to recover rather than vent the natural gas and natural gas liquids that come to the surface during completion of the fracturing process. The proposed rules also would establish specific requirements regarding emissions from compressors, dehydrators, storage tanks, and other production equipment. In addition, the rules would establish new leak detection requirements for natural gas processing plants. EPA will receive public comment and hold hearings regarding the proposed rules and must take final action on them by February 28, 2012. If finalized, these rules could require a number of modifications to our operations including the installation of new equipment. Compliance with such rules could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact our business.  Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds