ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  The statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in future filings by us with the SEC, in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words or phrases “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “plan,” project,” “should” or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are intended to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the PSLRA. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.  The following discussion contains certain cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. We do not undertake to address or update forward-looking statements in future filings or communications regarding our business or results of operations, and do not undertake to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. In addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. Any or all forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors discussed below will be important in determining future results. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Actual future results may vary materially from expectations expressed in this report or any of our prior communications.  If we fail to effectively estimate, price for and manage our medical costs, the profitability of our risk-based products could decline and could materially adversely affect our future financial results.  Under our risk-based product arrangements, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. Premium revenues from risk-based products comprise approximately 90% of our total consolidated revenues. We generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. The profitability of our risk-based products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for, and effectively manage medical costs. In this regard, the Health Reform Legislation requires HHS to maintain an annual review process of “unreasonable” increases in premiums for commercial health plans, and states have a variety of premium review and approval processes that are receiving increased scrutiny.  We manage medical costs through underwriting criteria, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and care management programs. Total medical costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered and the cost of each service. Our premium revenue on commercial policies is typically at a fixed rate per individual served for a 12-month period and is generally priced one to four months before the contract commences. Our revenue on Medicare policies is based on bids submitted in June the year before the contract year. We base the premiums we charge and our Medicare bids on our estimates of future medical costs over the fixed contract period; however, medical cost inflation, regulation and other factors may cause actual costs to exceed what was estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. These factors may include increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, catastrophes, epidemics, the introduction of new or costly    18    Table of Contents  treatments and technology, new mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, insured population characteristics and seasonal changes in the level of health care use. As a measure of the impact of medical costs on our financial results, relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. For example, if medical costs increased by 1% without a proportional change in related revenues for commercial insured products, our annual net earnings for 2010 would have been reduced by approximately $190 million.  In addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs that have been incurred for which claims are still outstanding. These estimates involve an extensive degree of judgment. If these estimates prove too low, they will have a negative impact on our future results.  Our business activities are highly regulated; new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  Our business is regulated at the federal, state, local and international levels. The laws and rules governing our business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. For example, in the first quarter of 2010, the Health Reform Legislation was signed into law, legislating broad-based changes to the U.S. health care system. See Item 1, “Business – Government Regulation” for a discussion of the Health Reform Legislation.  The broad latitude that is given to the agencies administering regulations governing our business, as well as future laws and rules, and interpretation of those laws and rules by governmental enforcement authorities, could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, and increase our liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. For example, in October 2008 Congress enacted the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act of 2008 (MHPAEA), which requires insurers to provide mental health and substance use disorder benefits under terms that are no more restrictive than those applied to medical and surgical benefits. The MHPAEA specifically directed the Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human Services and the Treasury to issue regulations to implement the legislation. Although regulations regarding how the MHPAEA was to be implemented were issued on February 2, 2010 in the form of an interim final rule, final regulations have not yet been published and interpretative guidance from the regulators has been limited to date. Because of the broad range of treatment limitations to which parity is expected to apply under the regulations, the regulations will likely lead to an increase in the costs associated with both insured and self-insured plans for behavioral health benefits and services and impact our market for carve-out health benefit administration, which could have an adverse effect on our earnings from operations.  We must also obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products, to increase prices for certain regulated products and to complete certain acquisitions and dispositions, including integration of certain acquisitions. Delays in obtaining approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain these approvals could reduce our revenue or increase our costs.  Under state guaranty fund laws, certain insurance companies (and HMOs in some states), including those issuing health (which includes long-term care), life and accident insurance policies, doing business in those states can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of insolvent insurance companies that write the same line or lines of business. Changes in these laws or the interpretation thereof, or insolvency by another insurer, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. See Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for a discussion of a matter involving Penn Treaty, which has been placed in rehabilitation.  Certain OptumHealth businesses are also subject to regulatory and other risks and uncertainties that may differ from the risks of our businesses of providing managed care and health insurance products. For example, the businesses are subject to federal and state anti-kickback and other laws and regulations, such as those that govern    19    Table of Contents  so-called corporate practice of medicine and fee-splitting, which govern their relationships with physicians, hospitals and customers.  Additionally, our financial services business may be impacted by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act which became law on July 21, 2010. The act calls for extensive rulemaking, including debit card interchange fees restrictions, and network exclusivity and routing requirements, and depending on rulemaking and implementation activities, could subject us to additional regulation, increase operational costs and reduce revenue.  We are also involved in various governmental investigations, audits and reviews. These regulatory activities include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by CMS, state insurance and health and welfare departments and state attorneys general, the Office of the Inspector General, the Office of Personnel Management, the Office of Civil Rights, U.S. Congressional committees, the U.S. Department of Justice, U.S. Attorneys, the SEC, the IRS, the U.S. Department of Labor, the FDIC and other governmental authorities. For example, in 2007, the California Department of Insurance examined our PacifiCare health insurance plan in California. The examination findings related to the timeliness and accuracy of claims processing, interest payments, provider contract implementation, provider dispute resolution and other related matters. The matter is now the subject of an administrative proceeding before an administrative law judge. See Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for a discussion of this matter. See also the risk factor below relating to our activities as a payer in various government health care programs for a discussion of audits of data used in determining CMS payment rates.  Reviews and investigations of this sort can lead to government actions, which can result in the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  In addition, the health care industry is regularly subject to negative publicity. Negative publicity, including negative publicity surrounding routine governmental investigations or the political environment, may adversely affect our stock price, damage our reputation in various markets and result in increased regulation and legislative review of industry practices, which may further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by adversely affecting our ability to market our products and services, requiring us to change our products and services, or increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate.  For a discussion of various federal and state laws and regulations governing our businesses, see Item 1, “Business — Government Regulation.”  The enactment or implementation of health care reforms could materially adversely affect the manner in which we conduct business and our revenues, financial position and results of operations.  In the first quarter of 2010, the Health Reform Legislation was signed into law. The Health Reform Legislation expands access to coverage and modifies aspects of the commercial insurance market, as well as the Medicaid and Medicare programs and CHIP and other aspects of the health care system. Among other things, the Health Reform Legislation includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, establishes minimum medical loss ratios, creates a federal premium review process, imposes new requirements on the format and content of communications (such as explanations of benefits, or EOBs) between health insurers and their members, grants to members new and additional appeal rights, imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits, reduces the Medicare Part D coverage gap and reduces payments to private plans offering Medicare Advantage.    20    Table of Contents Certain provisions of the Health Reform Legislation have already taken effect, and other provisions become effective at various dates over the next several years. HHS, the DOL and the Treasury Department have issued regulations (or proposed regulations) on a number of aspects of Health Reform Legislation, but we await final rules and interim guidance on other key aspects of the legislation. Due to the complexity of the Health Reform Legislation, the impact of the Health Reform Legislation remains difficult to predict and is not yet fully known.  For example, the Health Reform Legislation established minimum medical loss ratios for all commercial health plans in the large employer group, small employer group and individual markets (85% for large employer groups, 80% for small employer groups and 80% for individuals, calculated under the definitions in the Health Reform Legislation and regulations). Companies with medical loss ratios below these targets will be required to rebate ratable portions of their premiums to their customers annually. Depending on the results of the calculation and the manner in which we adjust our business model in light of this requirement, there could be meaningful disruptions in local health care markets, and our market share, revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the Health Reform Legislation requires the establishment of state-based health insurance exchanges for individuals and small employers by 2014. The types of exchange participation requirements ultimately enacted by each state, the availability of federal premium subsidies within exchanges, the potential for differential imposition of state benefit mandates inside and outside the exchanges, and the possibility that certain states may restrict the ability of health plans to continue to offer coverage to individuals and small employers outside of the exchanges, could result in disruptions in local health care markets and our revenues, financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  Several of the provisions in the Health Reform Legislation will likely increase our medical cost trends. Examples of these provisions are the excise tax on medical devices, annual fees on prescription drug manufacturers, enhanced coverage requirements and the prohibition of pre-existing condition exclusions. The annual insurance industry assessment ($8 billion levied on the insurance industry in 2014 with increasing annual amounts thereafter), which is not deductible for income tax purposes, will increase our operating costs. Premium increases will be necessary to offset the impact these and other provisions will have on our medical and operating costs. These premium increases are oftentimes subject to state regulatory approval, and, as required under the Health Reform Legislation, HHS recently issued proposed rules that, if implemented, would establish a federal premium rate review process for annual premium rate increases, generally of 10% or more. If we are not able to secure approval for adequate premium increases to offset increases in our cost structure, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, plans deemed to have a history of “unreasonable” rate increases may be prohibited from participating in the state-based exchanges that become active under the Health Reform Legislation in 2014.  The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that up to 32 million new individuals may eventually gain insurance coverage if the Health Reform Legislation is implemented broadly in its current form. In addition, we expect that implementation of the Health Reform Legislation will increase the demand for products and capabilities offered by our Health Services businesses. We have made and will continue to make strategic decisions and investments based, in part, on these assumptions, and our results of operations or financial position could be adversely affected if fewer individuals gain coverage under the Health Reform Legislation than estimated or we are unable to attract these new individuals to our Health Benefits offerings, or if the demand for our Health Services businesses does not increase.  Certain aspects of the Health Reform Legislation are also being challenged in federal court, with the proponents of such challenges seeking to limit the scope of or have all or portions of the Health Reform Legislation declared unconstitutional. For example, on January 31, 2011, in a case brought on behalf of 26 state attorneys general and/or governors and certain other parties, the United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida ruled that the provision in the Health Reform Legislation that requires individuals to purchase health insurance (or be subject to penalties), along with the entire legislation, is unconstitutional. The United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia has held that the individual mandate and certain related provisions are unconstitutional, but without declaring the entire legislation unconstitutional. Congress may also withhold the funding necessary to implement the Health Reform Legislation, or may attempt to replace the legislation with    21    Table of Contents  amended provisions or repeal it altogether. Any partial or complete repeal or amendment or implementation difficulties, or uncertainty regarding such events, could adversely impact our ability to capitalize on the opportunities presented by the Health Reform Legislation or may cause us to incur additional costs of compliance. For example, if the individual mandate is declared unconstitutional without corresponding changes to other provisions of the Health Reform Legislation to protect against the risk of adverse selection (such as revisions to the guaranteed issue and renewal requirements, prohibition on pre-existing condition exclusions, and rating restrictions), our financial position and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.  Congress is also considering additional health care reform measures, and a number of state legislatures have enacted or are contemplating significant reforms of their health insurance markets. The effects of the Health Reform Legislation and recently adopted state laws, and the regulations that have been and will be promulgated thereunder, are difficult to predict, and we cannot predict whether any other federal or state proposals will ultimately become law. Such laws and rules could force us to materially change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth in certain products and market segments, restrict premium growth rates for certain products and market segments, change the nature of our contracted network relationships, increase our medical and administrative costs and capital requirements, expose us to an increased risk of liability (including increasing our liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations and contract interpretation) or put us at risk for loss of business. In addition, our results of operations, our market share, our financial position, including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill, and our cash flows could be materially adversely affected by such changes.  For additional information regarding the Health Reform Legislation, see Item 1, “Business — Government Regulation” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Executive Overview — Business Trends — Health Care Reforms.”  As a payer in various government health care programs, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments and audits that could adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and results of operations.  We participate in various federal, state and local government health care coverage programs, including as a payer in Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, various Medicaid programs and CHIP, and receive revenues from these programs. These programs generally are subject to frequent changes, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, or increase our administrative or medical costs under such programs. For example, in 2009, CMS implemented a reduction in Medicare Advantage reimbursements of approximately 5% for 2010, and as part of the Health Reform Legislation, Medicare Advantage payment rates for 2011 were frozen at 2010 levels. Separately, CMS implemented a reduction in Medicare Advantage reimbursements of 1.6% for 2011. Beginning in 2012, additional cuts to Medicare Advantage plans will take effect, with changes being phased-in over two to six years, depending on the level of payment reduction in a county.  Although we have adjusted members’ benefits and premiums on a selective basis, terminated benefit plans in certain counties, and intensified both our medical and operating cost management in response to these rate reductions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute successfully on these or other strategies to address changes in the Medicare Advantage program. As part of the Health Reform Legislation, CMS has developed a system whereby plans that meet certain quality ratings will be entitled to various quality bonus payments, and there can be no assurance that our plans will meet these quality ratings. Our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by funding reductions, or if our plans do not meet the requirements to receive quality bonus payments.  Our participation in the Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, and various Medicaid and CHIP programs occurs through bids that are submitted periodically. Revenues for these programs are dependent upon periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various    22    Table of Contents  payment mechanisms. Funding for these government programs is dependent upon many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state level, and general political issues and priorities. A reduction or less than expected increase in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.  CMS uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding for Medicare programs, including adjusting monthly capitation payments to Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D plans according to the predicted health status of each beneficiary as supported by data from health care providers. In 2008, CMS announced that it will perform risk adjustment data validation (RADV) audits of selected Medicare health plans each year to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by health care providers, and certain of our local plans have been selected for audit. These audits may result in retrospective adjustments to payments made to health plans. In December 2010, CMS published for public comment a new proposed RADV audit and payment adjustment methodology. The proposed methodology contains provisions allowing retroactive contract level payment adjustments for the year audited using an extrapolation of the “error rate” identified in audit samples. Depending on the methodology utilized, potential payment adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  In addition, we are in discussions with the Office of Inspector General for HHS regarding audits of our risk adjustment data for two local plans. We are unable to predict the outcome of these audits and discussions. However, any payment adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for additional information regarding these audits.  In 2009, as part of ARRA and in an effort to relieve pressure resulting from state fiscal problems and rising Medicaid enrollments, Congress increased the Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP), temporarily increasing federal funding for state Medicaid programs. The enhanced FMAP was set to expire at the end of 2010. Federal legislation was passed in August 2010 that extended additional enhanced FMAP funding through June 2011. The ability of states to sustain their Medicaid programs may be adversely affected if Congress does not continue the enhanced FMAP beyond June 2011, which could result in a reduction of the scope of the programs, member disenrollment, rate reductions or other adverse actions.  Under the Medicaid Managed Care program, state Medicaid agencies are periodically required by federal law to seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care Medicaid health programs. If we are not successful in obtaining renewals of state Medicaid Managed Care contracts, we risk losing the members that were enrolled in those Medicaid plans. Under the Medicare Part D program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a threshold, which is calculated by the government after our bids are submitted. If the enrollee premium is not below the government threshold, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and we will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. For example, we lost approximately 650,000 of our auto-enrolled low-income subsidy members in 2008 because certain of our bids exceeded thresholds set by the government. In general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs, and other factors. In the event any of these assumptions are materially incorrect, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the Medicare program or other programs on which we bid, or our competitors submit bids that are more favorable than our bids, our results of operations could be materially affected.  If we fail to comply with requirements of privacy and security regulations, including taking steps to ensure that our third-party service providers who obtain access to sensitive personal information maintain its confidentiality and security, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected.  The collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of sensitive personal information by our businesses are regulated at the international, federal and state levels. These laws and rules are subject to change by legislation or administrative or judicial interpretation. Various state laws address the use and disclosure of sensitive personal information to the extent they are more restrictive than those contained in the    23    Table of Contents  privacy and security provisions in the federal GLBA and in HIPAA. HIPAA now requires business associates as well as covered entities to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. See Item 1, “Business — Government Regulation” for a discussion of various federal and state privacy laws and regulations governing our businesses.  Even though we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our third-party service providers and in certain cases assess their security controls, we still have limited control over their actions and practices. Privacy and security requirements regarding sensitive personal information are also imposed on us through controls with our customers. In addition, despite the security measures we have in place to ensure compliance with applicable laws and rules, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism or theft, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. Compliance with new privacy and security laws, requirements, and new regulations, such as ARRA, will result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes (including further implementation of encryption and other data protection standards), new limitations or constraints on our business models, the development of new administrative processes, the effects of potential noncompliance by our third-party service providers, and increased enforcement actions and fines and penalties. They also may impose further restrictions on our collection, disclosure and use of sensitive personal information that is housed in one or more of our administrative databases. We are awaiting final HHS regulations for many key aspects of the ARRA amendments to HIPAA.  Noncompliance with any privacy or security laws and regulations or any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive personal information, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations, including mandatory disclosure to the media, significant increase in the number and cost of managing and remediating data security incidents, increased enforcement actions, material fines and penalties, compensatory, special, punitive, and statutory damages, litigation, consent orders regarding our privacy and security practices, adverse actions against our licenses to do business, and injunctive relief.  Our businesses providing PBM services face regulatory and other risks and uncertainties associated with the PBM industry that may differ from the risks of our business of providing managed care and health insurance products.  We provide PBM services through our Prescription Solutions and UnitedHealthcare businesses. Each business is subject to federal and state anti-kickback and other laws that govern their relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, customers and consumers. In addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could adversely affect current industry practices, including the receipt or required disclosure of rebates from pharmaceutical companies, the development and use of formularies, and the use of average wholesale prices. See Item 1, “Business — Government Regulation” for a discussion of various federal and state laws and regulations governing our PBM businesses.  Our PBM businesses provide services to sponsors of health benefit plans that are subject to ERISA. The DOL, which is the agency that enforces ERISA, could assert that the fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by our PBM businesses even where our PBM businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations. In the event a court were to determine that fiduciary obligations apply to our PBM businesses in connection with services for which our PBM businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations, we could be subject to claims for breaches of fiduciary obligations or entering into certain prohibited transactions.  Prescription Solutions also conducts business as a mail order pharmacy and specialty pharmacy, which subjects it to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. The failure to adhere to these laws and regulations could expose Prescription Solutions to civil and criminal penalties. Further, Prescription Solutions is subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, which is a multifaceted security standard that includes requirements for security management, policies, procedures, network architecture, software design and other critical protective measures to protect customer account data as mandated by the credit card brands. The failure to adhere to such standards could expose Prescription Solutions to liability or impact their ability to process credit card transactions.    24    Table of Contents In addition, our PBM businesses would be adversely affected by an inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers, and could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our mail order or specialty pharmacies, including in connection with the risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. Disruptions at any of our mail order or specialty pharmacies due to failure of technology or any other failure or disruption to these systems or to the infrastructure due to fire, electrical outage, natural disaster, acts of terrorism or some other catastrophic event could reduce our ability to process and dispense prescriptions and provide products and services to customers.  If we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  Our businesses compete throughout the United States and face competition in all of the geographic markets in which we operate. We compete with other companies on the basis of many factors, including price of benefits offered and cost and risk of alternatives, location and choice of health care providers, quality of customer service, comprehensiveness of coverage offered, reputation for quality care, financial stability and diversity of product offerings. For our Health Benefits reporting segment, competitors include Aetna Inc., Cigna Corporation, Coventry Health Care, Inc., Health Net, Inc., Humana Inc., Kaiser Permanente, WellPoint, Inc., numerous for-profit and not-for-profit organizations operating under licenses from the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association and other enterprises that serve more limited geographic areas or market segments such as Medicare specialty services. For our Prescription Solutions business, competitors include Medco Health Solutions, Inc., CVS/Caremark Corporation and Express Scripts, Inc. Our OptumHealth and Ingenix reporting segments also compete with a broad and diverse set of other businesses.  In particular markets, competitors may have greater capabilities, resources or market share; a more established reputation; superior supplier or health care professional arrangements; existing business relationships; or other factors that give such competitors a competitive advantage. In addition, significant merger and acquisition activity has occurred in the industries in which we operate, both as to our competitors and suppliers (including hospitals, physician groups and other care professionals) in these industries. Consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase customers, to improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or to maintain or advance profitability. If we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers, if we do not provide a satisfactory level of services, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect, if membership or demand for other services declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  Adverse economic conditions could adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations.  Adverse economic conditions may continue to impact demand for certain of our products and services. For example, decreases in employment have caused and could continue to cause lower enrollment in our employer group plans, lower enrollment in our non-employer individual plans and a higher number of employees opting out of our employer group plans. Adverse economic conditions have caused and could continue to cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. In addition, adverse economic conditions could continue to negatively impact our employer group renewal prospects and our ability to increase premiums and could result in cancellation of products and services by our customers. All of these could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and premium and fee revenues and could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, a prolonged adverse economic environment could negatively impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers, which could adversely affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs or adversely affect their ability to purchase our service offerings.    25    Table of Contents During a prolonged adverse economic environment, state and federal budgets could be adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and CHIP. A reduction in state Medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to payments already negotiated and/or received from the government and could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. In addition, the state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the government to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments for our commercial programs, such as premium taxes on insurance companies and health maintenance organizations and surcharges on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims, and could adversely affect our results of operations.  If we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals, and other health care providers, our business could be adversely affected.  We contract with physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and other health care providers for competitive prices and services. Our results of operations and prospects are substantially dependent on our continued ability to maintain these competitive prices and services. Failure to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers, whether in-network or out-of-network, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.  In any particular market, physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. In addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. If these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be adversely affected.  In addition, we have capitation arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. Under the typical arrangement, the health care provider receives a fixed percentage of premium to cover all or a defined portion of the medical costs provided to the capitated member. Under some capitated arrangements, the provider may also receive additional compensation from risk sharing and other incentive arrangements. Capitation arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the professional. To the extent that a capitated health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the capitation arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims that should have been the responsibility of the capitated health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider under the capitation arrangement. Further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. There can be no assurance that health care providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations.  Some providers that render services to our members do not have contracts with us. In those cases, we do not have a pre-established understanding about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider for services rendered to our members. In some states, the amount of compensation due to these out-of-network providers is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances, it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that does not clearly specify dollar terms. In some instances, providers may believe that they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover from our members the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us. For example, we are involved in litigation with out-of-network providers that is described in more detail in “Litigation Matters” in Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.    26    Table of Contents The success of certain OptumHealth businesses depends on maintaining physician relationships. The primary care physicians that practice medicine or contract with our affiliated physician organizations could terminate their provider contracts or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue practicing medicine or contracting with us. If we are unable to maintain satisfactory relationships with primary care physicians, or to retain enrollees following the departure of a physician, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected.  In addition, physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and certain health care providers are customers of our Health Services businesses. Given the importance of health care providers and other constituents to our businesses, failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with them could adversely affect our business and results of operations.  Sales of our products and services are dependent on our ability to attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent third-party brokers, consultants and agents.  Our products are sold in part through independent brokers, consultants and agents who assist in the production and servicing of business. We typically do not have long-term contracts with our independent brokers, consultants and agents, who generally are not exclusive to us and who typically also recommend and/or market health care products and services of our competitors. As a result, we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. Our sales would be adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain independent brokers, consultants and agents or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education to them regarding our product portfolio, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels.  Because broker and agent commissions are included as health insurer administrative expenses under the medical loss ratio requirements of the Health Reform Legislation, these expenses will be under the same cost reduction pressures as other health insurer administrative costs. Our relationships with brokers and agents could be adversely impacted by changes in our businesses practices to address these pressures, including potential reductions in commissions and changes in the treatment of consulting fees.  In addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of brokers and agents selling health care products and the payments they receive. These have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and brokers and agents marketing and selling these companies’ products. For example, CMS and state departments of insurance have increased their scrutiny of the marketing practices of brokers and agents who market Medicare products. These investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practice, which could adversely impact our ability to market our products.  Our relationship with AARP is important and the loss of such relationship could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  Under our agreements with AARP, we provide AARP-branded Medicare Supplement insurance, hospital indemnity insurance and other products to AARP members and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans to AARP members and non-members. One of our agreements with AARP expands the relationship to include AARP-branded Medicare Advantage plans for AARP members and non-members. Our agreements with AARP contain commitments regarding corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, diversity and measures intended to improve and simplify the health care experience for consumers. The AARP agreements may be terminated early under certain circumstances, including, depending on the agreement, a material breach by either party, insolvency of either party, a material adverse change in our financial condition, material changes in the Medicare programs, material harm to AARP caused by us, and by mutual agreement. The success of our AARP arrangements depends, in part, on our ability to service AARP and its members, develop additional products and services, price the products and services competitively, meet our corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, and diversity commitments, and respond effectively to federal and state regulatory changes. The loss of our AARP relationship could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.    27    Table of Contents Because of the nature of our business, we are routinely subject to various litigation actions, which, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties and/or monetary damages and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  Periodically, we become a party to the types of legal actions that can affect any business, such as employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, medical malpractice, shareholder suits, and intellectual property-related litigation. In addition, because of the nature of our business, we are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to the design and management of our service offerings. These matters include, among others, claims related to health care benefits coverage and payment (including disputes with enrollees, customers, and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), tort, contract disputes and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. We are also party to certain class action lawsuits brought by health care professional groups.  We are largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks. Although we maintain excess liability insurance with outside insurance carriers for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages in some circumstances, are not covered by insurance. We record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters; however, it is possible that the level of actual losses will exceed the liabilities recorded.  A description of significant legal actions in which we are currently involved is included in Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We cannot predict the outcome of these actions with certainty, and we are incurring expenses in resolving these matters. Therefore, these legal actions could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  Our investment portfolio may suffer losses, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.  Market fluctuations could impair our profitability and capital position. Volatility in interest rates affects our interest income and the market value of our investments in debt securities of varying maturities, which comprise the vast majority of the fair value of our investments as of December 31, 2010. Relatively low interest rates on investments, such as those experienced during recent years, have negatively impacted our investment income, and a prolonged low interest rate environment could further adversely affect our investment income. In addition, defaults by issuers, primarily from investments in liquid corporate and municipal bonds, who fail to pay or perform on their obligations, could reduce our net investment income as we may be required to write down the value of our investments, which would adversely affect our profitability and shareholders’ equity.  We also allocate a small proportion of our portfolio to equity investments, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed income investments. General economic conditions, stock market conditions, and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our equity investments and may result in investment losses.  There can be no assurance that our investments will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than their carrying values. Changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, illiquidity or otherwise, could have a negative effect on our shareholders’ equity. In addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and the capital position of regulated subsidiaries.  If the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, shareholders’ equity and debt ratings could be materially adversely affected.  Goodwill and other intangible assets were $25.7 billion as of December 31, 2010, representing 41% of our total assets. We periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. For example, the    28    Table of Contents  manner in or the extent to which the Health Reform Legislation is implemented may impact our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets in our business. In addition, from time to time we divest businesses as part of our business strategy, and any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment and disposition charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially affect our results of operations and shareholders’ equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. A material decrease in shareholders’ equity could, in turn, negatively impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants.  Large-scale medical emergencies may result in significant medical costs and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Large-scale medical emergencies can take many forms and can cause widespread illness and death. Such emergencies could materially and adversely affect the U.S. economy in general and the health care industry specifically. For example, in the event of a natural disaster, bioterrorism attack, pandemic or other extreme events, we could face, among other things, significant medical costs and increased use of health care services. Any such disaster or similar event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  If we fail to properly maintain the integrity or availability of our data or to strategically implement new or upgrade or consolidate existing information systems, or if our technology products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially adversely affected.  Our ability to adequately price our products and services, to provide effective service to our customers in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, and to accurately report our results of operations depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. As a result of technology initiatives and recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, and changing customer patterns. If the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. There can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. Failure to consolidate and integrate our systems successfully could result in higher than expected costs and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, certain of our businesses sell and install hardware and software products, and these products may contain unexpected design defects or may encounter unexpected complications during installation or when used with other technologies utilized by the customer. Connectivity among competing technologies is becoming increasingly important in the health care industry. A failure of our technology products to operate as intended and in a seamless fashion with other products could adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations.    29    Table of Contents If we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases and related products, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses could be hindered and our business could be adversely affected.  We rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. These legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. In addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. Such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected.  Our ability to obtain funds from some of our subsidiaries is restricted and if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our operations or financial position may be adversely affected.  Because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from some of our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. Many of these subsidiaries are regulated by states’ departments of insurance. We are also required by law or regulation to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. The levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium revenues generated. A significant increase in premium volume will require additional capitalization from us. In most states, we are required to seek prior approval by these state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from these subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts. In addition, we normally notify the state departments of insurance prior to making payments that do not require approval. An inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies could impact the scale to which we could reinvest in our business through capital expenditures or business acquisitions, and could adversely affect our ability to maintain our corporate quarterly dividend payment cycle, repurchase of shares of our common stock and repay our debt. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our operations or financial position may be adversely affected.  Any failure by us to manage and complete acquisitions and other significant transactions successfully could harm our results of operations, business and prospects.  As part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions. If we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. For acquisitions, success is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations. If we are unable to successfully integrate and grow these acquisitions and to realize contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our results of operations could be adversely affected.  Downgrades in our credit ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Claims paying ability, financial strength, and credit ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. We believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. Our credit ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. Each of the credit rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current credit ratings will be maintained in the    30    Table of Contents  future. Our ratings reflect each credit rating agency’s opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders. Downgrades in our credit ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.      ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS