Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  Overview of Oil and Gas Well Drilling and Servicing Processes  Oil and gas wells are usually drilled by drilling contractors using a drilling rig. A bit is attached to the end of a drill stem, which is assembled by the drilling rig and its crew from 30-foot joints of drill pipe and specialized drilling components known as downhole tools. Using the conventional rotary drilling method, the drill stem is turned from the rotary table of the drilling rig by torque applied to the kelly, which is screwed into the top of the drill stem. Increasingly, drilling is performed using a drilling motor, which is attached to the bottom of the drill stem and provides rotational force directly to the bit, rather than such force being supplied by the rotary table. The use of a drilling motor permits the drilling contractor to drill directionally, including horizontally. The Company sells and rents drilling motors, drill bits, downhole tools and drill pipe through its Petroleum Services & Supplies segment.  During drilling, heavy drilling fluids or “drilling muds” are pumped down the drill stem and forced out through jets in the bit. The drilling mud returns to the surface through the space between the borehole wall and the drill stem, carrying with it the drill cuttings drilled out by the bit. The drill cuttings are removed from the mud by a solids control system (which can include shakers, centrifuges and other specialized equipment) and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. The solids control system permits the mud, which is often comprised of expensive chemicals, to be continuously reused and recirculated back into the hole.  Through its Rig Technology segment, the Company sells the large “mud pumps” that are used to pump drilling mud through the drill stem. Through its Petroleum Services & Supplies segment, the Company sells transfer pumps and mud pump consumables; sells and rents solids control equipment; and provides solids control, waste management and drilling fluids services. Many operators internally coat the drill stem to improve its hydraulic efficiency and protect it from corrosive fluids sometimes encountered during drilling, and inspect and assess the integrity of the drill pipe from time to time. The Company provides drill pipe inspection and coating services, and applies “hardbanding” material to drill pipe to improve its wear characteristics. These services are provided through the Petroleum Services & Supplies segment. Additionally, the Petroleum Services & Supplies segment manufactures and sells drill pipe.  As the hole depth increases, the kelly must be removed frequently so that additional 30-foot joints of drill pipe can be added to the drill stem. When the bit becomes dull or the equipment at the bottom of the drill stem — including the drilling motors — otherwise requires servicing, the entire drill stem is pulled out of the hole and disassembled by disconnecting the joints of drill pipe. These are set aside or “racked,” the old bit is replaced or service is performed, and the drill stem is reassembled and lowered back into the hole (a process called “tripping”). During drilling and tripping operations, joints of drill pipe must be screwed together and tightened (“made up”), and loosened and unscrewed (“spun out”). The Rig Technology segment provides drilling equipment to manipulate and maneuver the drill pipe in this manner. When the hole has reached certain depths, all of the drill pipe is pulled out of the hole and larger diameter pipe known as casing is lowered into the hole and permanently cemented in place in order to protect against collapse and contamination of the hole. The casing is typically inspected before it is lowered into the hole, a service the Petroleum Services & Supplies segment provides. The Rig Technology segment manufactures pressure pumping equipment that is used to cement the casing in place.  4       The raising and lowering of the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and the lowering of casing into the wellbore, is accomplished with the rig’s hoisting system. A conventional hoisting system is a block and tackle mechanism that works within the drilling rig’s derrick. The lifting of this mechanism is performed via a series of pulleys that are attached to the drawworks at the base of the derrick. The Rig Technology segment sells and installs drawworks and pipe hoisting systems. During the course of normal drilling operations, the drill stem passes through different geological formations, which exhibit varying pressure characteristics. If this pressure is not contained, oil, gas and/or water would flow out of these formations to the surface.  The two means of containing these pressures are (i) primarily the circulation of drilling muds while drilling and (ii) secondarily the use of blowout preventers (“BOPs”) should the mud prove inadequate and in an emergency situation. The Rig Technology segment sells and services blowout preventers. Drilling muds are carefully designed to exhibit certain qualities that optimize the drilling process. In addition to containing formation pressure, they must (i) provide power to the drilling motor, (ii) carry drilled solids to the surface, (iii) protect the drilled formations from being damaged, and (iv) cool the drill bit. Achieving these objectives often requires a formulation specific to a given well and can involve the use of expensive chemicals as well as natural materials such as certain types of clay. The fluid itself is often oil or more expensive synthetic mud. Given this expense, it is highly desirable to reuse as much of the drilling mud as possible. Solids control equipment such as shale shakers, centrifuges, cuttings dryers, and mud cleaners help accomplish this objective. The Petroleum Services & Supplies segment rents, sells, operates and services this equipment. Drilling muds are formulated based on expected drilling conditions. However, as the hole is drilled, the drill stem may encounter a high pressure zone where the mud density is inadequate to maintain sufficient pressure. Should efforts to “weight up” the mud in order to contain such a pressure kick fail, a blowout could result, whereby reservoir fluids would flow uncontrolled into the well. To prevent blowouts to the surface of the well, a series of high-pressure valves known as blowout preventers are positioned at the top of the well and, when activated, form tight seals that prevent the escape of fluids. When closed, conventional BOPs prevent normal rig operations. Therefore, the BOPs are activated only if drilling mud and normal well control procedures cannot safely contain the pressure.  The operations of the rig and the condition of the drilling mud are closely monitored by various sensors, which measure operating parameters such as the weight on the rig’s hook, the incidence of pressure kicks, the operation of the drilling mud pumps, etc. Through its Rig Technology segment, the Company sells and rents drilling rig instrumentation packages that perform these monitoring functions.  During the drilling and completion of a well, there exists an ongoing need for various consumables and spare parts. While most of these items are small, in the aggregate they represent an important element of the process. Since it is impractical for each drilling location to have a full supply of these items, drilling contractors and well service companies tend to rely on third parties to stock and deliver these items. The Company provides this capability through its Distribution Services segment, which stocks and sells spares and consumables made by third parties, as well as spares and consumables made by the Company.  After the well has reached its total depth and the final section of casing has been set, the drilling rig is moved off of the well and the well is prepared to begin producing oil or gas in a process known as “well completion.” Well completion usually involves installing production tubing concentrically in the casing. Due to the corrosive nature of many produced fluids, production tubing is often inspected and coated, services offered by the Petroleum Services & Supplies segment. Sometimes operators choose to use corrosion resistant composite materials, which the Company also offers through its Petroleum Services & Supplies segment, or corrosion-resistant alloys, or operators sometimes pump fluids into wells to inhibit corrosion.  From time to time, a producing well may undergo workover procedures to extend its life and increase its production rate. Workover rigs are used to disassemble the wellhead, tubing and other completion components of an existing well in order to stimulate or remediate the well. Workover rigs are similar to drilling rigs in their capabilities to handle tubing, but are usually smaller and somewhat less sophisticated. The Company offers a comprehensive range of workover rigs through its Rig Technology segment. Tubing and sucker rods removed from a well during a well remediation operation are often inspected to determine their suitability to be reused in the well, which is a service the Petroleum Services & Supplies segment provides.  Frequently coiled tubing units or wireline units are used to accomplish certain well remediation operations or well completions. Coiled tubing is a recent advancement in petroleum technology consisting of a continuous length of reeled steel tubing which can be injected concentrically into the production tubing all the way to the bottom of most wells. It permits many operations to be performed without disassembling the production tubing, and without curtailing the production of the well. Wireline winch units are devices that utilize single-strand or multi-strand wires to perform well remediation operations, such as lowering tools and transmitting data to the surface. Through the Rig Technology segment, the Company sells and rents various types of coiled tubing equipment, and wireline equipment and tools. The Company also manufactures and sells coiled tubing pipe through its Petroleum Services & Supplies segment.  5       Rig Technology  The Company has a long tradition of pioneering innovations in drilling and well servicing equipment which improve the efficiency, safety, and cost of drilling and well servicing operations. The Rig Technology segment designs, manufactures and sells a wide variety of top drives, automated pipe handling systems, motion compensation systems, rig controls, BOPs, handling tools, drawworks, risers, rotary tables, mud pumps, cranes, drilling motors, turret mooring systems and other products for FPSOs and other offshore vessels and terminals, and other drilling equipment for both the onshore and offshore markets. Rig Technology also manufactures entire rig packages, both drilling and workover, in addition to well servicing equipment such as coiled tubing units, pressure pumping equipment, and wireline winches. The Rig Technology segment sells directly to drilling contractors, shipyards and other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. Rig Technology rents and sells proprietary drilling rig instrumentation packages and control systems which monitor various processes throughout the drilling operation, under the name MD ® /Totco ® (“Instrumentation”). Demand for its products, several of which are described below, is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity.  Land Rig Packages. The Company designs, manufactures, assembles, upgrades, and supplies equipment sets to a variety of land drilling rigs, including those specifically designed to operate in harsh environments such as the Arctic Circle and the desert. Our key land rig product names include the Drake Rig, Ideal Rig™ and Rapid Rig ®. The Company’s recent rig packages are designed to be safer and fast moving, to utilize AC technology, and to reduce manpower required to operate a rig.  Top Drives. The Top Drive Drilling System (“TDS”), originally introduced by the Company in 1982, significantly alters the traditional drilling process. The TDS rotates the drill stem from its top, rather than by the rotary table, with a large electric motor affixed to rails installed in the derrick that traverses the length of the derrick to the rig floor. Therefore, the TDS eliminates the use of the conventional rotary table for drilling. Components of the TDS also are used to connect additional joints of drill pipe to the drill stem during drilling operations, enabling drilling with three joints of drill pipe compared to traditionally drilling with one joint of drill pipe. Additionally, the TDS facilitates horizontal and extended reach drilling.  Electric Rig Motors. The Company has helped lead the application of AC motor technology in the oilfield industry. The Company buys motors from third parties and builds them in its own facilities and is further developing motor technology, including the introduction of permanent magnet motor technology to the industry. These permanent magnet motors are being used in top drives, cranes, mud pumps, winches, and drawworks.  Rotary Equipment. The alternative to using a TDS to rotate the drill stem is to use a rotary table, which rotates the pipe at the floor of the rig. Rig Technology produces rotary tables as well as kelly bushings and master bushings for most sizes of kellys and makes of rotary tables. In 1998, the Company introduced the Rotary Support Table for use on rigs with a TDS. The Rotary Support Table is used in concert with the TDS to completely eliminate the need for the larger conventional rotary table.  Pipe Handling Systems. Pipe racking systems are used to handle drill pipe, casing and tubing on a drilling rig. Vertical pipe racking systems move drill pipe and casing between the well and a storage (“racking”) area on the rig floor. Horizontal racking systems are used to handle tubulars while stored horizontally (for example, on the pipe deck of an offshore rig) and transport tubulars up to the rig floor and into a vertical position for use in the drilling process.  Vertical pipe racking systems are used predominantly on offshore rigs and are found on almost all floating rigs. Mechanical vertical pipe racking systems greatly reduce the manual effort involved in pipe handling. Pipe racking systems, introduced by the Company in 1985, provide a fully automated mechanism for handling and racking drill pipe during drilling and tripping operations, spinning and torquing drill pipe, and automatic hoisting and racking of disconnected joints of drill pipe. These functions can be integrated via computer controlled sequencing, and operated by a driller in an environmentally secure cabin. An important element of this system is the Iron Roughneck, which was originally introduced by the Company in 1976 and is an automated device that makes pipe connections on the rig floor and requires less direct involvement of rig floor personnel in potentially dangerous operations. The Automated Roughneck is an automated microprocessor-controlled version of the Iron Roughneck.  Horizontal pipe transfer systems were introduced by the Company in 1993. They include the Pipe Deck Machine (“PDM”), which is used to manipulate and move tubulars while stored in a horizontal position; the Pipe Transfer Conveyor (“PTC”), which transports sections of pipe to the rig floor; and a Pickup Laydown System (“PLS”), which raises the pipe to a vertical position for transfer to a vertical racking system. These components may be employed separately, or incorporated together to form a complete horizontal racking system, known as the Pipe Transfer System (“PTS”).  6       Pipe Handling Tools. The Company’s pipe handling tools are designed to enhance the safety, efficiency and reliability of pipe handling operations. Many of these tools have provided innovative methods of performing the designated task through mechanization of functions previously performed manually. The Rig Technology segment manufactures various tools used to grip, hold, raise, and lower pipe, and in the making up and breaking out of drill pipe, workstrings, casing and production tubulars including spinning wrenches, manual tongs, torque wrenches and kelly spinners.  Mud Pumps. Mud pumps are high pressure pumps located on the rig that force drilling mud down the drill pipe, through the drill bit, and up the space between the drill pipe and the drilled formation (the “annulus”) back to the surface. These pumps, which generate pressures of up to 7,500 psi, must therefore be capable of displacing drilling fluids several thousand feet down and back up the well bore. The conventional mud pump design, known as the triplex pump, uses three reciprocating pistons oriented horizontally. The Company has introduced the HEX Pump, which uses six pumping cylinders, versus the three used in the triplex pump. Along with other design features, the greater number of cylinders reduces pulsations (or surges) and increases the output available from a given footprint. Reduced pulsation is desirable where downhole measurement equipment is being used during the drilling process, as is often the case in directional drilling.  Hoisting Systems. Hoisting systems are used to raise or lower the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and to lower casing into the wellbore. The drawworks is the heart of the hoisting system. It is a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line, which is in turn connected to the drill stem at the top of the derrick. The drawworks also plays an important role in keeping the weight on the drill bit at a desired level. This task is particularly challenging on offshore drilling rigs, which are subject to wave motion. To address this, the Company has introduced the Active Heave Drilling (“AHD”) Drawworks. The AHD Drawworks uses computer-controlled motors to compensate for the motion experienced in offshore drilling operations.  Cranes. The Company provides a comprehensive range of crane solutions, with purpose-built products for all segments of the oil and gas industry as well as many other markets. The Company encompasses a broad collection of brand names with international recognition, and includes a large staff of engineers specializing in the design of cranes and related equipment. The product range extends from small cargo-handling cranes to the world’s largest marine cranes. In all, the Company provides over twenty crane product lines that include standard model configurations as well as custom-engineered and specialty cranes.  Motion Compensation Systems. Traditionally, motion compensation equipment is located on top of the drilling rig and serves to stabilize the bit on the bottom of the hole, increasing drilling effectiveness of floating offshore rigs by compensating for wave and wind action. The AHD Drawworks, discussed above, was introduced to eliminate weight and improve safety, removing the compensator from the top of the rig and integrating it into the drawworks system. In addition to the AHD Drawworks, the Company has introduced an Active Heave Compensation (“AHC”) System that goes beyond the capabilities of the AHD Drawworks to handle the most severe weather. Additionally, the Company’s tensioning systems provide continuous axial tension to the marine riser pipe (larger diameter pipe which connects floating drilling rigs to the well on the ocean floor) and guide lines on floating drilling rigs, tension leg platforms and jack-up drilling rigs.  Blowout Preventers. BOPs are devices used to seal the space between the drill pipe and the borehole to prevent blowouts (uncontrolled flows of formation fluids and gases to the surface). The Rig Technology segment manufactures a wide array of BOPs used in various situations. Ram and annular BOPs are back-up devices that are activated only if other techniques for controlling pressure in the wellbore are inadequate. When closed, these devices prevent normal rig operations. Ram BOPs seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing rams (thick heavy blocks of steel) against each other across the wellbore. Specially designed packers seal around specific sizes of pipe in the wellbore, shear pipe in the wellbore or close off an open hole. Annular BOPs seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing a rubber packing unit around the drill pipe or kelly or by sealing against itself if nothing is in the hole. The Company’s Pressure Control While Drilling (“PCWD”) ® BOP, introduced in 1995, allows operators to drill at pressures up to 2,000 psi without interrupting normal operations, and can act as a normal spherical BOP at pressures up to 5,000 psi.  In 1998, the Company introduced the NXT® ram type BOP which eliminates door bolts, providing significant weight, rig-time, and space savings. Its unique features make subsea operation more efficient through faster ram configuration changes without tripping the BOP stack. In 2004, the Company introduced the LXT, which features many of the design elements of the NXT®, but is targeted at the land market. In 2005, the Company began commercializing technology related to a continuous circulation device. This device enables drilling contractors to make and break drill pipe connections without stopping the circulation of drilling fluids, which helps increase drilling efficiency.  The new ShearMaxTM line of low force BOP shear rams released in 2010 add substantial tubular shearing capability to the Company’s line of pressure control equipment, including the capability to shear large drill pipe tool joints, previously unheard of in the industry. This innovative shear blade design utilizes patented “Puncture Technology” to reduce the shearing pressures 50% or more and in some cases as much as five times lower. The ShearMaxTM Blind shear provides a shear-and-seal design for drill pipe, while the Casing and TJC shears address casing up to 16” OD and most tool joints up to 2” wall thickness, respectively.  Derricks and Substructures. Drilling activities are carried out from a drilling rig. A drilling rig consists of one or two derricks; the substructure that supports the derrick(s); and the rig package, which consists of the various pieces of equipment discussed above. Rig Technology designs, fabricates and services derricks used in both onshore and offshore applications, and substructures used in onshore applications. The Rig Technology segment also works with shipyards in the fabrication of substructures for offshore drilling rigs.  7       Instrumentation. The Company’s Instrumentation business provides drilling rig operators real time measurement and monitoring of critical parameters required to improve rig safety and efficiency. In 1999, the Company introduced its RigSense ® Wellsite Information System, which combines leading hardware and software technologies into an integrated drilling rig package. Access of drilling data is provided to offsite locations, enabling company personnel to monitor drilling operations from an office environment, through a secure link. Systems are both sold and rented, and are comprised of hazardous area sensors placed throughout the rig to measure critical drilling parameters; all networked back to a central command station for review, recording and interpretation. The Company offers unique business integration services to directly integrate information into business applications that improves accuracy and assists drilling contractors in managing their drilling business. Reports on drilling activities and processes are now provided from the rig site as a part of the DrillSuite business solution to allow contractors to streamline administration by eliminating manual entry of data, promotes accurate payroll processing and invoicing, and includes asset tracking and preventive maintenance management through its RigMS solution. The real time information provided also allows the Company to advance the drilling process using advanced drilling algorithms and electronic controls such as our Wildcat Auto Drilling System for better execution of the well plan, enhanced rates of penetration, reduced program costs, and improved wellbore quality. Complementing the Company’s surface solutions is a portfolio of Down-Hole Instrumentation (“DHI”) products for both straight-hole and directional markets. Key advancements in this area include the introduction of the Company’s time saving ETotco™ Electronic Drift Recorder, which serves as an electronic equivalent to the traditional mechanical drift tool that the Company has offered since 1929.  Coiled Tubing Equipment. Coiled tubing consists of flexible steel tubing manufactured in a continuous string and spooled on a reel. It can extend several thousand feet in length and is run in and out of the wellbore at a high rate of speed by a hydraulically operated coiled tubing unit. A coiled tubing unit is typically mounted on a truck, semi-trailer or skid (steel frames on which portable equipment is mounted to facilitate handling with cranes for offshore use) and consists of a hydraulically operated tubing reel or drum, an injector head which pushes or pulls the tubing in or out of the wellbore, and various power and control systems. Coiled tubing is typically used with sophisticated pressure control equipment which permits the operator to perform workover operations on a live well. The Rig Technology segment manufactures and sells both coiled tubing units and the ancillary pressure control equipment used in these operations. Through its acquisition of Rolligon in late 2006, the Company enhanced its portfolio by adding additional pressure pumping and coiled tubing equipment products.  Currently, most coiled tubing units are used in well remediation and completion applications. The Company believes that advances in the manufacturing process of coiled tubing, tubing fatigue protection and the capability to manufacture larger diameter and increased wall thickness coiled tubing strings have resulted in increased uses and applications for coiled tubing products. For example, some well operators are now using coiled tubing in drilling applications such as slim hole re-entries of existing wells. The Company engineered and manufactured the first coiled tubing units built specifically for coiled tubing drilling in 1996.  Generally, the Rig Technology segment supplies customers with the equipment and components necessary to use coiled tubing, which the customers typically purchase separately. The Rig Technology segment’s coiled tubing product line consists of coiled tubing units, coiled tubing pressure control equipment, pressure pumping equipment, snubbing units (which are units that force tubulars into a well when pressure is contained within the wellbore), nitrogen pumping equipment and cementing, stimulation, fracturing and blending equipment.  Wireline Equipment. The Company’s wireline products include wireline drum units, which consist of a spool or drum of wireline cable, mounted in a mobile vehicle or skid, which works in conjunction with a source of power (an engine mounted in the vehicle or within a separate “power pack” skid). The wireline drum unit is used to spool wireline cable into or out of a well, in order to perform surveys inside the well, sample fluids from the bottom of the well, retrieve or replace components from inside the well, or to perform other well remediation or survey operations. The wireline used may be “slick line”, which is conventional single-strand steel cable used to convey tools in or out of the well, or “electric line”, which contains an imbedded single-conductor or multi-conductor electrical line which permits communication between the surface and electronic instruments attached to the end of the wireline at the bottom of the well.  Wireline units are usually used in conjunction with a variety of other pressure control equipment which permit safe access into wells while they are flowing and under pressure at the surface. The Company engineers and manufactures a broad range of pressure control equipment for wireline operations, including wireline blowout preventers, strippers, packers, lubricators and grease injection units. Additionally, the Company makes wireline rigging equipment such as mast trucks.  Turret Mooring Systems. The Company acquired Advanced Production and Loading PLC (“APL”), in December 2010. APL, based in Norway, designs and manufactures turret mooring systems and other products for FPSOs and other offshore vessels and terminals. A turret mooring system consists of a geostatic part attached to the seabed and a rotating part integrated in the hull of the FPSO, which are connected and allow the ship to weathervane (rotate) around the turret.  8       Facilities. The Company’s Rig Technology segment conducts manufacturing operations at major facilities in Houston, Galena Park, Sugar Land, Conroe, Cedar Park, Anderson, Fort Worth and Pampa, Texas; Duncan, Oklahoma; Orange, California; Edmonton, Canada; Aberdeen, Scotland; Kristiansand, Stavanger and Arendal, Norway; Etten-Leur and Groot-Ammers, the Netherlands; Carquefou, France; Singapore; Lanzhou and Shanghai, China; Dubai, UAE; and Ulsan, South Korea. For a more detailed listing of significant facilities see Item 2. “Properties”. The Rig Technology segment maintains sales and service offices in most major oilfield markets, either directly or through agents.  Customers and Competition. Rig Technology sells directly to drilling contractors, other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumping companies, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. Demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity.  The products of the Rig Technology segment are sold in highly competitive markets and its sales and earnings can be affected by competitive actions such as price changes, new product development, or improved availability and delivery. The segment’s primary competitors are Access Oil Tools; Aker Solutions AS; American Block; Bomco; Canrig (a division of Nabors Industries); Cavins Oil Tools; Cameron; DenCon Oil Tools; Forum Oilfield Technologies; General Electric; Hitec Drilling Products; Hong Hua; Huisman; Global Energy Services; LTI (a division of Rowan Companies); M&I Electric; Tesco Corporation; Stewart & Stevenson, Inc.; Huntings, Ltd.; Vanoil; Parveen Industries; Soilmec; TTS Sense; Omron; Bentee; Blohm; Voss; Liebher; Seatrax; MacGregor; Rolls Royce and Weatherford International, Inc. Management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting its Rig Technology segment are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of products, spare parts, and consumables, breadth of product line and price.  Petroleum Services & Supplies  The Company provides a broad range of support equipment, spare parts, consumables and services through the Petroleum Services & Supplies segment. Petroleum Services & Supplies segment sells directly and provides a variety of tubular services, composite tubing, and coiled tubing to oil and gas producers, national oil companies, drilling contractors, well servicing companies, and tubular processors, manufacturers and distributors. These include inspection and reclamation services for drill pipe, casing, production tubing, sucker rods and line pipe at drilling and workover rig locations, at yards owned by its customers, at steel mills and processing facilities that manufacture tubular goods, and at facilities which it owns. The Company also provides internal coating of tubular goods at several coating plants worldwide and through licensees in certain locations. Additionally, the Company designs, manufactures and sells high pressure fiberglass and composite tubulars for use in corrosive applications and coiled tubing for use in well servicing applications and connections for large diameter conductor pipe.  The Company’s customers rely on tubular inspection services to avoid failure of tubing, casing, flowlines, pipelines and drill pipe. Such tubular failures are expensive and in some cases catastrophic. The Company’s customers rely on internal coatings of tubular goods to prolong the useful lives of tubulars and to increase the volumetric throughput of in-service tubular goods. The Company’s customers sometimes use fiberglass or composite tubulars in lieu of conventional steel tubulars, due to the corrosion-resistant properties of fiberglass and other composite materials. Tubular inspection and coating services are used most frequently in operations in high-temperature, deep, corrosive oil and gas environments. In selecting a provider of tubular inspection and tubular coating services, oil and gas operators consider such factors as reputation, experience, technology of products offered, reliability and price.  The Petroleum Services & Supplies segment also provides products and services that are used in the course of drilling oil and gas wells. The NOV Downhole business sells and rents bits, drilling motors and specialized downhole tools that are incorporated into the drill stem during drilling operations, and are also used during fishing, well intervention, re-entry, and well completion operations. The Wellsite Services business provides products and services such as drilling fluids, highly-engineered solids control equipment, waste handling and treatment, completion fluids, power generation equipment, and other ancillary well site equipment and services. Wellsite Services is also engaged in barium sulfate (“barite”) mining operations in the State of Nevada. Barite is an inert powder material used as the primary weighting agent in drilling fluids. Additionally, efficient separation of drill cuttings enables the re-use of often costly drilling fluids. The Pumps & Expendables business provides centrifugal, reciprocating, and progressing cavity pumps and pump expendables (“Pumps & Expendables”) into the global oil and gas and industrial markets.  Solids Control and Waste Management. The Company is engaged in the provision of highly-engineered equipment, products and services which separate and manage drill cuttings produced by the drilling process (“Solids Control”). Drill cuttings are usually contaminated with petroleum or drilling fluids, and must be disposed of in an environmentally sound manner.  Fluids Services. The Company acquired the Spirit group of companies in May 2009 (“Spirit”) and Ambar in January 2010. Both are engaged in the provision of drilling fluids, completion fluids and other related services. This division is also engaged in barite mining operations. Drilling fluids are designed and used to maintain well bore stability while drilling, control downhole pressure, drill bit lubrication, and as a drill cuttings displacement medium. Completion fluids are used to clean the well bore and stimulate production.  9       Portable Power. The acquisition of Welch Sales and Service, Inc. in 2008 placed Wellsite Services in the power generation and temperature control business. The Portable Power division provides rental equipment for use in the upstream oil and gas industry, refinery and petrochemical, construction, events, disaster relief and other industries.  Tubular Coating. The Company develops, manufactures and applies its proprietary tubular coatings, known as Tube-Kote® coatings, to new and used tubulars. Tubular coatings help prevent corrosion of tubulars by providing a tough plastic shield to isolate steel from corrosive oilfield fluids such as CO 2 , H 2 S and brine. Delaying or preventing corrosion extends the life of existing tubulars, reduces the frequency of well remediation and reduces expensive interruptions in production. In addition, coatings are designed to increase the fluid flow rate through tubulars by decreasing or eliminating paraffin and scale build-up, which can reduce or block oil flow in producing wells. The smooth inner surfaces of coated tubulars often increase the fluid through-put on certain high-rate oil and gas wells by reducing friction and turbulence. The Company’s reputation for supplying quality internal coatings is an important factor in its business, since the failure of coatings can lead to expensive production delays and premature tubular failure. In 2005, the Company created a 60%-owned joint venture in China with the Huabei Petroleum Administration Bureau, which coats Chinese produced drill pipe using the Company’s proprietary coatings. In 2007, the joint venture opened a second coating plant in Jiangyin City, China.  In addition to the Company’s TK® coatings, it also has complementary corrosion control products and services including TK® Liners, TuboWrap™, and KC-IPC Connections. TK Liners are fiberglass-reinforced tubes which are inserted into steel line pipe. This safeguards the pipe against corrosion and extends the life of the pipeline. In conjunction with the Thru-Kote® connection system customers can weld a sleeve for a continuous fiberglass lined pipeline. Tubo-Wrap™ is a high performance external coating that protects the pipe during installation and from corrosion once the pipeline is in place. KC-IPC Connections use a modified American Petroleum Institute (“API”) coupling to create a “gas-tight” seal that prevents corrosion and turbulence in the critical connections of tubulars while protecting the internal plastic coating at the highly loaded contact points.  Tubular Inspection. Newly manufactured pipe sometimes contains serious defects that are not detected at the mill. In addition, pipe can be damaged in transit and during handling prior to use at the well site. As a result, exploration and production companies often have new tubulars inspected before they are placed in service to reduce the risk of tubular failures during drilling, completion, or production of oil and gas wells. Used tubulars are inspected by the Company to detect service-induced flaws after the tubulars are removed from operation. Used drill pipe and used tubing inspection programs allow operators to replace defective lengths, thereby prolonging the life of the remaining pipe and saving the customer the cost of unnecessary tubular replacements and expenses related to tubular failures.  Tubular inspection services employ all major non-destructive inspection techniques, including electromagnetic, ultrasonic, magnetic flux leakage and gamma ray. These inspection services are provided both by mobile units which work at the wellhead as used tubing is removed from a well, and at fixed site tubular inspection locations. The Company provides an ultrasonic inspection service for detecting potential fatigue cracks in the end area of used drill pipe, the portion of the pipe that traditionally has been the most difficult to inspect. Tubular inspection facilities also offer a wide range of related services, such as API thread inspection, ring and plug gauging, and a complete line of reclamation services necessary to return tubulars to useful service, including tubular cleaning and straightening, hydrostatic testing and re-threading.  In addition, the Company applies hardbanding material to drill pipe, to enhance its wear characteristics and reduce downhole casing wear as a result of the drilling process. In 2002, the Company introduced its proprietary line of hardbanding material, TCS — 8000 ä. The Company also cleans, straightens, inspects and coats sucker rods at 11 facilities throughout the Western Hemisphere. Additionally, new sucker rods are inspected before they are placed into service, to avoid premature failure, which can cause the oil well operator to have to pull and replace the sucker rod.  Machining Services. In 2005, the Company acquired Turner Oilfield Services and expanded our product offering into thread repair, tool joint rebuilding and sub manufacturing. Since then the Company has made strategic acquisitions of Hendershot and Mid-South and has expanded its machining services internally to develop a “one-stop-shop” concept for its drill pipe customers. Thread repair services include rotary shouldered and premium connections. The Company is licensed to perform thread repair services for API and proprietary connections. Tool joint rebuilding is a unique process to restore worn drill pipe tool joints, drill collars and heavy weight drill pipe to the original specifications to extend the service life of those assets. The Company manufactures downhole tools and is API licensed for this process in several locations.  In November 2009, the Company acquired South Seas Inspection (S) Pte. Ltd., (“SSI”) and certain assets of its Brazilian affiliate. SSI provides a wide array of oilfield services including rig and derrick construction, derrick inspection and maintenance, drops surveys and load testing at the rig through the use of rope access technicians. This acquisition adds multiple new services and allows the Company to grow this business by leveraging existing relationships and infrastructure. These operations are based out of Singapore with branch offices in Baku, Azerbaijan and Aktau, Kazkhstan as well as a representative office in Vietnam. The highly trained workforce is completely mobile and provides these services worldwide.  10       Mill Systems and Sales. The Company engineers and fabricates inspection equipment for steel mills, which it sells and rents. The equipment is used for quality control purposes to detect defects in the pipe during the high-speed manufacturing process. Each piece of mill inspection equipment is designed to customer specifications and is installed and serviced by the Company.  Drill Pipe Products. The Company manufactures and sells a variety of drill stem products used for the drilling of oil and gas wells. The principal products sold by Drill Pipe Products are: (i) drill pipe, (ii) drill collars and heavyweight drill pipe and (iii) drill stem accessories including tool joints. Drill pipe is the principal tool, other than the rig, required for the drilling of an oil or gas well. Its primary purpose is to connect the above-surface drilling rig to the drill bit. A drilling rig will typically have an inventory of 10,000 to 30,000 feet of drill pipe depending on the size and service requirements of the rig. Joints of drill pipe are connected to each other with a welded-on tool joint to form what is commonly referred to as the drill string or drill stem.  When a drilling rig is operating, motors mounted on the rig rotate the drill pipe and drill bit. In addition to connecting the drilling rig to the drill bit, drill pipe provides a mechanism to steer the drill bit and serves as a conduit for drilling fluids and cuttings. Drill pipe is a capital good that can be used for the drilling of multiple wells. Once a well is completed, the drill pipe may be used again and again to drill other wells until the drill pipe becomes damaged or wears out.  In recent years, the depth and complexity of the wells customers drill, as well as the specifications and requirements of the drill pipe they purchase, have substantially increased. A majority of the drill pipe sold is required to meet specifications exceeding minimum API standards. The Company offers a broad line of premium drilling products designed for the offshore, international and domestic drilling markets. The Company’s premium drilling products include its proprietary lines of XT® and TurboTorqueTM connections and large diameter drill pipe that delivers hydraulic performance superior to standard sizes.  Drill collars are used in the drilling process to place weight on the drill bit for better control and penetration. Drill collars are located directly above the drill bit and are manufactured from a solid steel bar to provide necessary weight.  Heavyweight drill pipe is a thick-walled seamless tubular product that is less rigid than a drill collar. Heavyweight drill pipe provides a gradual transition between the heavier drill collar and the lighter drill pipe.  The Company also provides subs, pup joints (short and odd-sized tubular products) and other drill stem accessories. These products all perform special functions within the drill string as part of the drilling process.  NOV IntelliServ. NOV IntelliServ is a joint venture between the Company and Schlumberger, Ltd. in which the Company holds a 55% interest and maintains operational control. NOV IntelliServ provides wellbore data transmission services that enable high-speed communication up and down the drill string throughout drilling and completion operations that are undertaken during the construction of oil and gas wells. NOV IntelliServ’s core product, “The IntelliServ® Broadband Network”, was commercialized in February 2006 and incorporates various proprietary mechanical and electrical components into the Company’s premium drilling tubulars to enable data transmission rates that are currently up to 20,000 times faster than mud pulse, the current industry standard. The IntelliServ® Broadband Network also permits virtually unlimited real-time actuation of drilling tools and sensors at the bottom of the drill string, a process that conventionally requires the time consuming return of tools to the surface. NOV IntelliServ offers its products and services on a rental basis to oil and gas operators.  Voest-Alpine Tubulars (“VAT”). VAT is a joint venture between the Company and the Austrian based Voestalpine Group. The Company has a 50.01% investment in the joint venture which is located in Kindberg, Austria. VAT owns a tubular mill with an annual capacity of approximately 380,000 metric tons and is the primary supplier of green tubes for our U.S. based production. In addition to producing green tubes, VAT produces seamless tubular products for the OCTG market and non-OCTG products used in the automotive, petrochemical, construction, mining, tunneling and transportation industries.  Fiberglass & Composite Tubulars. When compared to conventional carbon steel and even corrosion-resistant alloys, resin-impregnated fiberglass and other modern plastic composites often exhibit superior resistance to corrosion. Some producers manage the corrosive fluids sometimes found in oil and gas fields by utilizing composite or fiberglass tubing, casing and line pipe in the operations of their fields. In 1997, the Company acquired Fiber Glass Systems, a leading provider of high pressure fiberglass tubulars used in oilfield applications, to further serve the tubular corrosion prevention needs of its customers. Fiber Glass Systems has manufactured fiberglass pipe since 1968 under the name “Star ®”, and was the first manufacturer of high-pressure fiberglass pipe to be licensed by the API in 1992. Through acquisitions and investments in technologies, the Company has extended its fiberglass and composite tubing offering into industrial and marine applications, in addition to its oilfield market.  Coiled Tubing. Coiled tubing provides a number of significant functional advantages over the principal alternatives of conventional drill pipe and workover pipe. Coiled tubing allows faster “tripping,” since the coiled tubing can be reeled quickly on and off a drum and in and out of a wellbore. In addition, the small size of the coiled tubing unit compared to an average workover rig or drilling rig reduces preparation time at the well site. Coiled tubing permits a variety of workover and other operations to be performed without having to pull the existing production tubing from the well and allows ease of operation in horizontal or highly deviated wells. Thus,  11       operations using coiled tubing can be performed much more quickly and, in many instances, at a significantly lower cost. Finally, use of coiled tubing generally allows continuous production of the well, eliminating the need to temporarily stop the flow of hydrocarbons. As a result, the economics of a workover are improved because the well can continue to produce hydrocarbons and thus produce revenues while the well treatments are occurring. Continuous production also reduces the risk of formation damage which can occur when the flow of fluids is stopped or isolated. Under normal operating conditions, the coiled tubing string must be replaced every three to four months. The Company designs, manufactures, and sells coiled tubing under the Quality Tubing brand name at its mill in Houston, Texas.  NOV Downhole. The NOV Downhole business unit combines a wide array of drilling and intervention tool product lines with the drill bit, coring services, borehole enlargement and drilling dynamics/drilling optimization service lines previously consolidated within the ReedHycalog business unit of Grant Prideco.  The broad spectrum of bottom hole assembly (“BHA”) components offered by NOV Downhole is unique within the industry and is the result of the Company’s strategic consolidation of several key acquisitions, including: NQL Energy Services, Inc., a leading manufacturer and provider of downhole drilling tools; Gammaloy Holdings, L.P., a manufacturer and provider of non-magnetic drill collars and other related products; and the ReedHycalog, Corion, and Andergauge business units of Grant Prideco, a global leader in the design, manufacture and provision of drill bits, variable gauge stabilizers, hydraulically and mechanically actuated under-reamers, specialty coring services and downhole vibration mitigation services.  NOV Downhole manufactures fixed cutter and roller cone drill bits and services its customer base through a technical sales and marketing network in virtually every significant oil and gas producing region of the world. It provides fixed-cutter bit technology under various brand names including TReX®, Raptorä, SystemMatchedä and Rotary Steerable. One of its most significant fixed cutter drill bit innovations is the TReX®, Raptorä, and Duraforce family of cutter technologies which significantly increase abrasion resistance (wear life) without sacrificing impact resistance (toughness). This technology provides a diamond surface that maintains a sharp, low-wear cutting edge that produces drilling results that exceed conventional standards for polycrystalline diamond (“PDC”) bit performance.  The Company produces roller-cone bits for a wide variety of oil and gas drilling applications. Roller-cone bits consist of three rotating cones that have cutting teeth, which penetrate the formation through a crushing action as the cones rotate in conjunction with the rotation of the drill pipe. This cutting mechanism, while less efficient than fixed-cutter bits, is more versatile in harder formations, or where the geology is changing. We manufacture roller-cone bits with milled teeth and with tungsten carbide insert teeth, which have a longer life in harder formations. We also manufacture a unique patented line of bits using a powder-metal forging technology sold under the brand TuffCutterä. We market our roller-cone products and technology globally under various brand names including RockForce™, Titan™ and TuffCutter™.  NOV Downhole designs, manufacturers and services a wide array of downhole motors used in straight hole, directional, slim hole, and coiled tubing drilling applications. These motors are sold or leased under the NOV Downhole brand name. The Company also maintains a wide variety of motor power sections, including its proprietary PowerPlus™ and HemiDril™ rotors and stators which it incorporates into its own motors as well as sells to third parties. Downhole drilling motors utilize hydraulic horsepower from the drilling fluid pumped down the drill stem to develop torque at the bit. Motors are capable of achieving higher rotary velocities than can generally be achieved using conventional surface rotary equipment. Motors are often used in conjunction with high speed PDC bits to improve rates of penetration.  NOV Downhole also manufactures and sells drilling jars and fishing tools. Drilling jars are placed in the drill string, where they can be used to generate a sudden, jarring motion to free the drill string should it become stuck in the wellbore during the drilling process. This jarring motion is generated using hydraulic and/or mechanical force provided at the surface. In the event that a portion of the drill string becomes stuck and cannot be jarred loose, fishing tools are run into the wellbore on the end of the drill string to retrieve the portion that is stuck.  Through its Coring Services business line, NOV Downhole offers coring solutions that enable the extraction of actual rock samples from a drilled well bore and allow geologists to examine the formations at the surface. One of the coring services utilized is the Company’s unique Corion Express® system which allows the customer to drill and core a well without tripping pipe. Corion Express® utilizes wireline retrievable drilling and coring elements which allow the system to transform from a drilling assembly to a coring assembly and also to wireline retrieve the geological core. This capability enables customers to save significant time and expense during the drilling and coring process.  NOV Downhole offers a wide variety of industry leading technologies to enable customers to enlarge the diameter of a drilled hole below a restriction (typically a casing string) via its Borehole Enlargement business line. Borehole enlargement services are typically utilized in deep water drilling where customers wish to maximize the size of each successive casing string in order to preserve a relatively large completion hole size through which to produce hydrocarbons from the reservoir. Borehole enlargement is also employed where customers wish to reduce the fluid velocity and pressure within the well-bore annulus to reduce the risk of formation  12       erosion or accidental fracture. Borehole Enlargement provides bi-centered drill bits, expandable reamers (marketed under the AnderReamer™ brand name) and associated equipment along with well-site service technicians who deliver 24 hour support during hole enlargement operations.  NOV Downhole offers drilling optimization services via its Advanced Drilling Solutions (“ADS”) business line. ADS services incorporate various downhole vibration measurement and mitigation tools along with dedicated, highly trained personnel who interpret such data and provide drilling parameter guidance intended to improve drilling efficiency and reduce drilling risk.  Pumps & Expendables. The Company’s Pumps & Expendables business designs, manufactures, and sells pumps that are used in oil and gas drilling operations, well service operations, production applications, as well as industrial applications. These pumps include reciprocating positive displacement and centrifugal pumps. High pressure mud pumps are sold within the Rig Technology segment. These pumps are sold as individual units and unitized packages with drivers, controls and piping. The Company also manufactures fluid end expendables (liners, valves, pistons, and plungers), fluid end modules and a complete line of dies and inserts for pipe handling. The Company offers popular industry brand names like Wheatley, Gaso, and Omega reciprocating pumps, acquired in 2000; Halco Centrifugal Pumps, acquired in 2002; Petroleum Expendable Products (“PEP”), acquired in 1997; and Phoenix Energy Products, acquired in 1998.  The Company also manufactures a line of commodity and high end valves, chokes, and flow line equipment used in both production and drilling applications. Additionally these products are used in the fabrication of choke and kill standpipe, cement, and production manifolds. The Company manufactures its pump products in Houston, Odessa and Marble Falls, Texas; Tulsa and McAlester, Oklahoma; Scott, Louisiana; Newcastle, England; Dehradun, India and Buenos Aires, Argentina.  XL Systems. The Company’s XL Systems product line offers the customer an integrated package of large-bore tubular products and services for offshore wells. This product line includes the Company’s proprietary line of wedge thread marine connections on large-bore tubulars and related engineering and design services. The Company provides this product line for drive pipe, jet strings and conductor casing. The Company also offers weld-on connections and service personnel in connection with the installation of these products. In early 2007, the Company completed development of its new high-strength Viper™ weld-on connector that it believes will permit the Company to penetrate traditional markets that do not require the enhanced performance of its proprietary wedge-thread design.  Customers and Competition. Customers for the Petroleum Services & Supplies’ tubular services include major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield equipment and product distributors and manufacturers, oilfield service companies, steel mills, and other industrial companies. The Company’s competitors include, among others, Ameron International Corp; EDO Corporation; ShawCor Ltd.; Schlumberger, Ltd.; Frank’s International; Inc.; Baker Hughes Incorporated; Halliburton Company; Weatherford International Ltd.; Patterson Tubular Services; Vallourec & Mannesmann; and Precision Tube (a division of Tenaris). In addition, the Company competes with a number of smaller regional competitors in tubular inspection. Certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which the Company operates have adopted policies or regulations that may give local nationals in these countries certain competitive advantages. Within the Company’s corrosion control products, certain substitutes such as non-metallic tubulars, inhibitors, corrosion resistant alloys, cathodic protection systems, and non-metallic liner systems also compete with the Company’s products. Management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting this business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of products, spare parts, and consumables, breadth of product line and price.  The primary customers for drilling services offered by the Petroleum Services & Supplies segment include drilling contractors, well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and national oil companies. Competitors in drilling services include Schlumberger, Ltd. (“SWACO”); Baker Hughes Incorporated; Halliburton Company; Derrick Manufacturing Corp.; Fluid Systems; Oil Tools Pte. Ltd; Peak Energy Services, Ltd.; Varel; United Diamond; Roper; Robbins & Myers; Southwest Oilfield Products; and a number of regional competitors. The Petroleum Services & Supplies segment sells drilling services into highly competitive markets. Management believes that on-site service is becoming an increasingly important competitive element in this market, and that the principal competitive factors affecting the business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, product availability and technology, breadth of product line and price.  13       Distribution Services  The Distribution Services segment is a market leader in the provision of supply chain management services to drilling contractors and exploration and production companies around the world. Through its network of over 200 Distribution Service Center locations worldwide, this segment stocks and sells a large line of oilfield products including consumable maintenance, repair and operating supplies, valves, fittings, flanges and spare parts that are needed throughout the drilling, completion and production process. The supplies and equipment stocked by our Distribution Service Centers are customized to meet a wide variety of customer demands.  Distribution’s supply chain solutions for customers include outsourcing the functions of procurement, inventory & warehouse management, logistics, business process, and performance metrics reporting. In this solution offering, we leverage the flexible infrastructure of our SAP™ ERP system to streamline the acquisition process from requisition to procurement to payment, by digitally managing approval routing & workflow, and by providing robust reporting functionality.  NOV RigStore™ is a cutting-edge industry value offering by Distribution Services whereby we provide the installation, staffing and management of supply stores on offshore drilling rigs. With the NOV RigStore™ business model, Distribution Services installs its own ERP system onboard in order to access and leverage Distribution’s global inventory, hundreds of support locations, and thousands of vendors across multiple product lines. This business model relieves the average offshore drilling rig’s balance sheet by providing improved accounting of these expense items, lower capital costs, extended payment on part of the driller until the item is actually issued from the onboard supply store, and removed risk of ownership from the customer. Whether it is a smaller, new drilling contractor or larger, established drilling company the benefits of effective supply chain management and reduced total cost of ownership are substantial.  Distribution Services also provides unique one-stop-shop value propositions in the Exploration and Production market in key areas of artificial lift, measurement & controls, valving & actuation, and flow optimization. Through focused effort, we have built expertise in providing applications engineering, systems & parts integration, optimization solutions, and after-sales service & support in the aforementioned areas. Distribution Services is diversifying by adding new artificial lift technologies, as well as measurement & controls competencies to become the biggest global provider of equipment and services in the exploration and production space.  Approximately 78% of Distribution Services segment’s sales in 2010 were in the United States and Canada. The remainder comes from key international markets in Latin America, the North Sea, Middle East, Africa and the Far East. The Distribution Services segment has now expanded into oilfields in over 20 countries. Approximately 25% of Distribution Services revenues are from the resale of goods manufactured by other segments within the Company and the balance are sales of goods manufactured by third parties.  Distribution Services works to strategically increase revenue and enhance alliances with customers by continuous expansion of product and service solutions and creation of differentiating value propositions. Additionally the segment leverages its extensive purchasing power to reduce the cost of the goods. Distribution Services is strategically expanding its sourcing network into low cost countries globally.  Customers and Competition. The primary customers for Distribution Services include drilling contractors, well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and national oil companies. Competitors in Distribution Services include Wilson Supply (a division of Schlumberger, Ltd.), CE Franklin, McJunkin Red Man, and a number of regional competitors.  14       2010 Acquisitions and Other Investments  In 2010, the Company made the following acquisitions and outside investments:                      Acquisition   Form   Operating Segment   Date of Transaction     Ambar Lone Star Fluid Services, LLC    Asset    Petroleum Services & Supplies    January 2010   Visible Assets, Inc.    Stock    Petroleum Services & Supplies    April 2010   Sigma Offshore, Ltd.    Stock    Rig Technology    April 2010   Paradigm Lift Technologies, LLC    Asset    Distribution Services    April 2010   kVA, Ltd.    Stock    Petroleum Services & Supplies    June 2010   Power & Leasing division of Tarpon Energy Services, Ltd.    Asset    Petroleum Services & Supplies    September 2010   Group KZ, LLP    Stock    Distribution Services    October 2010   Big Red Tubulars, Ltd.    Stock    Petroleum Services & Supplies    November 2010   Advanced Production and Loading PLC    Stock    Rig Technology    December 2010   Greystone Technologies PTY Ltd.    Stock    Petroleum Services & Supplies    December 2010   Welltronics MWD LLC    Asset    Rig Technology    December 2010   Permian Fabrication    Asset    Petroleum Services & Supplies    December 2010     The Company paid an aggregate purchase price of $556 million, net of cash acquired for acquisitions and outside investments in 2010.  Seasonal Nature of the Company’s Business  Historically, the level of some of the Company’s segments have followed seasonal trends to some degree. In general the Rig Technology segment has not experienced significant seasonal fluctuation although orders for new equipment may be modestly affected by holiday schedules. There can be no guarantee that seasonal effects will not influence future sales in this segment.  In Canada, the Petroleum Services & Supplies segment has typically realized high first quarter activity levels, as operators take advantage of the winter freeze to gain access to remote drilling and production areas. In past years, certain Canadian businesses within Petroleum Services & Supplies and Distribution Services have declined during the second quarter due to warming weather conditions which resulted in thawing, softer ground, difficulty accessing drill sites, and road bans that curtailed drilling activity (“Canadian Breakup”). However, these segments have typically rebounded in the third and fourth quarter. Petroleum Services & Supplies activity in both the U.S. and Canada sometimes increases during the third quarter and then peaks in the fourth quarter as operators spend the remaining drilling and/or production capital budgets for that year. Petroleum Services & Supplies revenues in the Rocky Mountain region sometimes decline in the late fourth quarter or early first quarter due to harsh winter weather. The segment’s fiberglass and composite tubulars business in China has typically declined in the first quarter due to the impact of weather on manufacturing and installation operations, and due to business slowdowns associated with the Chinese New Year.  The Company anticipates that the seasonal trends described above will continue. However, there can be no guarantee that spending by the Company’s customers will continue to follow patterns seen in the past or that spending by other customers will remain the same as in prior years.  Marketing & Distribution Network  Substantially all of our Rig Technology capital equipment and spare parts sales, and a large portion of our smaller pumps and parts sales, are made through our direct sales force and distribution service centers. Sales to foreign oil companies are often made with or through agent or representative arrangements. Products within Petroleum Service & Supplies are rented and sold worldwide through our own sales force and through commissioned representatives. Distribution Services sales are made directly through our network of distribution service centers.  The Rig Technology segment’s customers include drilling contractors, shipyards and other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumpers, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. Demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. Rig Technology purchases can represent significant capital expenditures, and are often sold as part of a rig fabrication or major rig refurbishment package. Sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and often the Company bids jointly with other related product and services providers, such as rig fabrication yards and rig design firms.  15       The Petroleum Services & Supplies segment’s customers for tubular services include major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, oilfield equipment and product distributors and manufacturers, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield service companies, pressure pumpers, pipeline operators, pipe mills, manufacturers and processors, and other industrial companies. Certain tubular inspection and tubular coating products and services often are incorporated as a part of a tubular package sold by tubular supply stores to end users. The Company primarily has direct operations in the international marketplace, but operates through agents in certain markets.  The Petroleum Services & Supplies segment’s customers for drilling services are predominantly major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling contractors, well servicing companies, providers of drilling fluids, and other oilfield service companies. This segment operates sales and distribution facilities at strategic locations worldwide to service areas with high drilling activity. Strategically located service and engineering facilities provide specialty repair and maintenance services to customers. Sales of capital equipment are sometimes made through rig fabricators, and often are bid as part of a rig fabrication package or rig refurbishment package. Sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and often the Company bids jointly with other related service providers.  Distribution Services sales are made through our network of distribution service centers. Customers for our products and services include drilling and other service contractors, exploration and production companies, supply companies and nationally owned or controlled drilling and production companies.  The Company’s foreign operations, which include significant operations in Canada, Europe, the Far East, the Middle East, Africa and Latin America, are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including foreign currency exchange risks and uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. Government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which the Company operates have adopted policies (or are subject to governmental policies) giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. As a result of such policies, the Company relies on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. In addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationship between the Company and such government-owned petroleum companies. Although the Company has not experienced any material problems in foreign countries arising from nationalistic policies, political instability, economic instability or currency restrictions, there can be no assurance that such a problem will not arise in the future. As discussed in Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk”, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency in 2010. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding geographic revenue information.  Research and New Product Development and Intellectual Property  The Company believes that it has been a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes and that its sales and earnings have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. Through its internal development programs and certain acquisitions, the Company has assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights.  As of December 31, 2010, the Company held a substantial number of United States patents and had several patent applications pending. Expiration dates of such patents range from 2011 to 2030. As of this date, the Company also had foreign patents and patent applications pending relating to inventions covered by the United States patents. Additionally, the Company maintains a substantial number of trade and service marks and maintains a number of trade secrets.  Although the Company believes that this intellectual property has value, competitive products with different designs have been successfully developed and marketed by others. The Company considers the quality and timely delivery of its products, the service it provides to its customers and the technical knowledge and skills of its personnel to be as important as its intellectual property in its ability to compete. While the Company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the Company will realize future revenues from new products.  16       Engineering and Manufacturing  The manufacturing processes for the Company’s products generally consist of machining, welding and fabrication, heat treating, assembly of manufactured and purchased components and testing. Most equipment is manufactured primarily from alloy steel, and the availability and price of alloy steel castings, forgings, purchased components and bar stock is critical to the production and timing of shipments. Primary manufacturing facilities for the Rig Technology segment are located in Houston, Galena Park, Sugar Land, Conroe, Cedar Park, Anderson, Fort Worth and Pampa, Texas; Duncan, Oklahoma; Orange, California; Edmonton, Canada; Aberdeen, Scotland; Kristiansand, Stavanger and Arendal, Norway; Etten-Leur and Groot-Ammers, the Netherlands; Carquefou, France; Singapore; Lanzhou and Shanghai, China; Dubai, UAE; and Ulsan, South Korea.  The Petroleum Services & Supplies segment manufactures or assembles the equipment and products which it rents and sells to customers, and which it uses in providing services. Downhole tools are manufactured at facilities in Houston, Texas; Manchester, England; Dubai, UAE; and Singapore. Drill Bits are manufactured at facilities in Conroe, Texas; Stonehouse, U.K; and Jurong, Singapore. Drill Stem technology development and drill pipe are manufactured at facilities in Navasota, Texas; Veracruz, Mexico; Jurong, Singapore; and Baimi Town, Jiangyan and Jiangsu, China. Solids control equipment and screens are manufactured at facilities in Houston and Conroe, Texas; New Iberia, Louisiana; Aberdeen, Scotland; Trinidad; Shah Alum and Puncak Alam, Malaysia; and Macae, Brazil. Pumps are manufactured at facilities in Houston, Odessa and Marble Falls, Texas; McAlester and Tulsa, Oklahoma; Manchester and Newcastle, England; Melbourne, Australia; and Buenos Aires, Argentina. NOV IntelliServ manufactures or assembles equipment in Provo, Utah. The Company manufactures tubular inspection equipment and tools at its Houston, Texas facility for resale, and renovates and repairs equipment at its manufacturing facilities in Houston, Texas; Celle, Germany; Singapore; and Aberdeen, Scotland. Fiberglass and composite tubulars and fittings are manufactured at facilities in San Antonio, Texas; Little Rock, Arkansas; Tulsa, Oklahoma; Wichita, Kansas; and Harbin and Suzhou, China, while tubular coatings are manufactured in its Houston, Texas facility, or through restricted sale agreements with third party manufacturers. Certain of the Company’s manufacturing facilities and certain of the Company’s products have various certifications, including, ISO 9001, API, APEX and ASME.  Raw Materials  The Company believes that materials and components used in its servicing and manufacturing operations and purchased for sales are generally available from multiple sources. The prices paid by the Company for its raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel and other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; and foreign currency exchange rates. In 2006 and 2007, the price for mild steel and standard grades stabilized while specialty alloy prices continued to rise driven primarily by escalation in the price of the alloying agents. However, toward the end of 2007, the Company began to see price escalations in all grades of steel that continued into 2008. During 2008, steel prices stabilized and the Company began to experience some declines in steel prices late in 2008 and throughout 2009. The Company has generally been successful in its effort to mitigate the financial impact of higher raw materials costs on its operations by applying surcharges to and adjusting prices on the products it sells. Furthermore, the Company continued to expand its supply base in 2006, 2007 and 2008 throughout the world to address its customers’ needs. In 2010, the Company witnessed flat to slight increases in steel pricing. The Company anticipates higher steel pricing across the board in 2011. Higher prices and lower availability of steel and other raw materials the Company uses in its business may adversely impact future periods.  Backlog  The Company monitors its backlog of orders within its Rig Technology segment to guide its planning. Backlog includes orders greater than $250,000 for most items and orders for wireline units in excess of $75,000, and which require more than three months to manufacture and deliver.  Backlog measurements are made on the basis of written orders which are firm, but may be defaulted upon by the customer in some instances. Most require reimbursement to the Company for costs incurred in such an event. There can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be realized as revenue, or that the Company will earn a profit on backlog work. Our backlog for equipment at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $5.0 billion, $6.4 billion and $11.1 billion, respectively.  Employees  At December 31, 2010, the Company had a total of 41,027 employees, of which 5,443 were temporary employees. Approximately 117 employees in the Company’s fiberglass tubulars plant in Little Rock, Arkansas, and 152 employees of the Company’s downhole tools product line in Houston and Conroe, Texas, are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Additionally, certain of the Company’s employees in various foreign locations are subject to collective bargaining agreements.  17        ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. Realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.  We are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile.  The oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. Demand for our services and products depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service companies and the level of workover activity. Drilling and workover activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the United States and Canada. The willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including:       •   the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to maintain price stability through voluntary production limits, the level of production by non-OPEC countries and worldwide demand for oil and gas;        •   level of production from known reserves;        •   cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas;        •   level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates;        •   worldwide economic activity;        •   national government political requirements;        •   development of alternate energy sources; and        •   environmental regulations.    If there is a significant reduction in demand for drilling services, in cash flows of drilling contractors, well servicing companies, or production companies or in drilling or well servicing rig utilization rates, then demand for the products and services of the Company will decline.  Volatile oil and gas prices affect demand for our products.  Oil and gas prices have been volatile since 1972. In general, oil prices approximated $18-$22 per barrel from 1991 through 1997, experienced a decline into the low teens in 1998 and 1999, and have generally ranged between $25-$100 per barrel since 2000. In 2008, oil prices were extremely volatile — oil prices rose to $147 per barrel in July 2008 only to fall into the $35-$45 per barrel range in December 2008. In 2009, oil prices continued to be volatile, rising to the $70 per barrel range during the year. In 2010 oil prices continued rising to finish the year well above $80 per barrel. Domestic spot gas prices generally ranged between $1.80-$2.60 per mmbtu of gas from 1991 through 1999 then experienced spikes into the $10 range in 2001 and 2003. Prices generally ranged between $4.50-$12.00 per mmbtu during 2005-2008. In 2009 and 2010, spot gas prices generally stabilized, dropping into the $3 per mmbtu range during 2009 before rising slightly in 2010 to finish the year just under $4 per mmbtu.  Expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. Oil and gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, may fall below a range that is acceptable to our customers, which could reduce demand for our products.  18       Worldwide financial and credit crisis could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition.  Events in 2008 and 2009 constrained credit markets and sparked a serious global banking crisis. The slowdown in worldwide economic activity caused by the global recession reduced demand for energy and resulted in lower oil and natural gas prices. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, many of our customers access the credit markets to finance their oil and natural gas drilling activity. If the recent crisis and recession reduce the availability of credit to our customers, they may reduce their drilling and production expenditures, thereby decreasing demand for our products and services. Any such reduction in spending by our customers could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.  There are risks associated with certain contracts for our drilling equipment.  As of December 31, 2010, we had a backlog of approximately $5.0 billion of drilling equipment to be manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by our Rig Technology segment. The following factors, in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely affect our position in the market or subject us to contractual penalties:       •   our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this drilling equipment;        •   our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements;        •   our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process;        •   our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within required timeframes;        •   unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials; and        •   our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor shortages or other factors beyond our control.    The Company’s existing contracts for rig equipment generally carry significant down payment and progress billing terms favorable to the ultimate completion of these projects and do not allow customers to cancel projects for convenience. However, unfavorable market conditions or financial difficulties experienced by our customers may result in cancellation of contracts or the delay or abandonment of projects.  Any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.  Competition in our industry could ultimately lead to lower revenues and earnings.  The oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. We compete with national, regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. Certain of these competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a better competitive position. The following competitive actions can each affect our revenues and earnings:       •   price changes;        •   new product and technology introductions; and        •   improvements in availability and delivery.    In addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local nationals in these countries competitive advantages. Competition in our industry could lead to lower revenues and earnings.  We have aggressively expanded our businesses and intend to maintain an aggressive growth strategy.  We have aggressively expanded and grown our businesses during the past several years, through acquisitions and investment in internal growth. We anticipate that we will continue to pursue an aggressive growth strategy but we cannot assure you that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at reasonable prices or at all. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able to manage effectively the increased size of the Company or operate any new lines of business. Any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. In addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing  19       on terms acceptable to us or at all. Future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the Company, any of which could cause our business to suffer.  Our operating results have fluctuated during recent years and these fluctuations may continue.  We have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results in the past. We cannot assure that we will realize earnings growth or that earnings in any particular quarter will not fall short of either a prior fiscal quarter or investors’ expectations. The following factors, in addition to others not listed, may affect our quarterly operating results in the future:       •   fluctuations in the oil and gas industry;        •   competition;        •   the ability to service the debt obligations of the Company;        •   the ability to identify strategic acquisitions at reasonable prices;        •   the ability to manage and control operating costs of the Company;        •   fluctuations in political and economic conditions in the United States and abroad; and        •   the ability to protect our intellectual property rights.    There are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or economic instability, currency restrictions, and trade and economic sanctions.  Approximately 66% of our revenues in 2010 were derived from operations outside the United States (based on revenue destination). Our foreign operations include significant operations in Canada, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Southeast Asia, Latin America and other international markets. Our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. Government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. As a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. In addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between us and government-owned petroleum companies.  Our operations outside the United States could also expose us to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the United States or other governments or organizations. The U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and other federal agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of trading sanctions laws, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other federal statutes. Under trading sanctions laws, the DOJ may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs. If any of the risks described above materialize, it could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.  We have received federal grand jury subpoenas and subsequent inquiries from governmental agencies requesting records related to our compliance with export trade laws and regulations. We have cooperated fully with agents from the Department of Justice, the Bureau of Industry and Security, the Office of Foreign Assets Control, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in responding to the inquiries. We have also cooperated with an informal inquiry from the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the inquiries previously made by the aforementioned federal agencies. We have conducted our own internal review of this matter. At the conclusion of our internal review in the fourth quarter of 2009, we identified possible areas of concern and discussed these areas of concern with the relevant agencies. We are currently negotiating a potential resolution with the agencies involved related to these matters. We currently anticipate that any administrative fine or penalty agreed to as part of a resolution would be within established accruals, and would not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. To the extent a resolution is not negotiated as anticipated, we cannot predict the timing or effect that any resulting government actions may have on our financial position or results of operations.  20       The results of our operations are subject to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  We earn revenues, pay expenses and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including, but not limited to, the Canadian dollar, the Euro, the British pound sterling, the Norwegian krone and the South Korean won. Approximately 66% of our 2010 revenue was derived from sales outside the United States. Because our Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Thus, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies in which our operations are conducted will affect our revenues and operating income. Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. We use derivative financial instruments to mitigate our net exposure to currency exchange fluctuations. We had forward contracts with a notional amount of $1,976 million (with a fair value of $24 million) as of December 31, 2010 to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. We are also subject to risks that the counterparties to these contracts fail to meet the terms of our foreign currency contracts. We cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates would not affect our financial results.  An impairment of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets could reduce our earnings.  The Company has approximately $5.8 billion of goodwill and $0.6 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of December 31, 2010. Generally accepted accounting principles require the Company to test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. Events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include (but are not limited to) a significant reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling; a significant reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors; a significant reduction in worldwide well remediation activity; a significant reduction in capital investment by other oilfield service companies; or a significant increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas. The timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgment. If we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders’ equity; resulting in an increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization.  See additional discussion on “Goodwill and Other Indefinite — Lived Intangible Assets” in Critical Accounting Estimates of Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”  We could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses.  Our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. These laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. If existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. We cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. Governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition.  Our businesses expose us to potential environmental liability.  Our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which could result in:       •   personal injury or loss of life;        •   severe damage to or destruction of property; or        •   environmental damage and suspension of operations.    21          Our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other liabilities. These could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. These liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories:       •   negligence;        •   strict liability;        •   breach of contract with customers; or        •   as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of business, which is normally the case.    We may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental liabilities.  While we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. In addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. We face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage:       •   we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms;        •   we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance;        •   our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or        •   the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits.    Even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.  The adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products.  Environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the United States and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. The adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. The U.S. Congress is currently working on legislation to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the United States, which includes establishing cap-and-trade programs. In addition to the pending climate legislation, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has proposed regulations that would require permits for and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for certain facilities, and may issue final rules this year. These changes in the legal and regulatory environment could reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.  The Company had revenues of 17% of total revenue from one of its customers for the year ended December 31, 2010.  The loss of this customer (Samsung Heavy Industries) or a significant reduction in its purchases could adversely affect our future revenues and earnings.  The recent moratorium on deepwater drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and its consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business.  A moratorium on deepwater drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico was enacted during the second quarter of 2010 following the Macondo well blowout and oil spill. Even though such moratorium has been lifted, any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas drilling and production activity as a result of such moratorium or permitting issues in this area could result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.  22       GLOSSARY OF OILFIELD TERMS                    (Sources: Company management; “A Dictionary for the Petroleum Industry,” The University of Texas at Austin, 2001.)           API    Abbr: American Petroleum Institute           Annular Blowout Preventer    A large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself.           Annulus    The open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass.           Automatic Pipe Handling Systems (Automatic Pipe Racker)    A device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. It replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole.           Automatic Roughneck    A large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. The device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches.           Beam pump    Surface pump that raise and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump.           Bit    The cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. The bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. The cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds (“PDCs”). These teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. The circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. In rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. Drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact with the bottom of the hole. Most bits used in rotary drilling are roller cone bits, but diamond bits are also used extensively.           Blowout    An uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. A blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. A kick warns of an impending blowout.           Blowout Preventer (BOP)    Series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids.           Blowout Preventer (BOP) Stack    The assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead.           Closed Loop Drilling Systems    A solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself.           Coiled Tubing    A continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a reel, often dozens of feet in diameter. The reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. Because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and less expensive than running conventional tubing. Rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. Also called reeled tubing.     23                     Cuttings    Fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. Washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled.           Directional Well    Well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation.           Drawworks    The hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. It is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit.           Drill Pipe Elevator (Elevator)    On conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). Since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered.           Drilling jars    A percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem.           Drilling mud    A specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations.           Drilling riser    A conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water’s surface to the sea floor.           Drill stem    All members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the Kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items.           Formation    A bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock; often a lithologic unit. Each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on fossils found in the formation.           FPSO    A Floating Production, Storage and Offloading vessel used to receive hydrocarbons from subsea wells, and then produce and store the hydrocarbons until they can be offloaded to a tanker or pipeline.           Hardbanding    A special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole.           Hydraulic Fracturing    The process of creating fractures in a formation by pumping fluids, at high pressures, into the reservoir, which allows or enhances the flow of hydrocarbons.           Iron Roughneck    A floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. The Iron Roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools.           Jack-up rig    A mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or open-truss legs that support the deck and hull. When positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor.           Jar    A mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe.           Joint    1. In drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 meters, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. Several joints screwed together constitute a stand of pipe. 2. In pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters) of pipe. 3. In sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends.     24                     Kelly    The heavy steel tubular device, four- or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table returns. It has a bored passageway that permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. Kellys manufactured to API specifications are available only in four- or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 to 16 meters) long, and have diameters as small as 2.5 inches (6 centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimeters).           Kelly bushing    A special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. The kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. The bottom of the bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. In either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly bushing also turns. Since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. Also called the drive bushing.           Kelly spinner    A pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. It is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up.           Kick    An entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. It occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the formation drilled. If prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur.           Making-up    1. To assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. To screw together two threaded pieces. Compare break out. 3. To mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. To compensate for (e.g., to make up for lost time).           Manual tongs (Tongs)    The large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. Power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque.           Master bushing    A device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. Also called rotary bushing.           Motion compensation equipment    Any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig.           Mud pump    A large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig.           Plug gauging    The mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with API standards.           Pressure control equipment    Equipment used in: 1. The act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. The act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well.           Pressure pumping    Pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface.           Ram blowout preventer    A blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. Also called a ram preventer.           Ring gauging    The mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with API standards.           Riser    A pipe through which liquids travel upward.     25                     Riser pipe    The pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to established a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. A riser pipe serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor or drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. The riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. Also called marine riser pipe, riser joint.           Rotary table    The principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. The master bushing fits inside the opening of the rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning.           Rotating blowout preventer (Rotating Head)    A sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. A rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents the well from blowing out. It is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. The rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid.           Safety clamps    A clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. Should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar string from falling into the hole. Also called drill collar clamp.           Shaker    See “Shale Shaker”           Shale shaker    A piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. The size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. Also called a shaker.           Slim-hole completions (Slim-hole Drilling)    Drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. This decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion.           Slips    Wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit’s drive shaft. Rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. Drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. Power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection.           Solids    See “Cuttings”           Spinning wrench    Air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections.           Spinning-in    The rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. “Spinning-out” refers to separating the pipe.           Stand    The connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. On a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble.           String    The entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole.     26                     Sucker rod    A special steel pumping rod. Several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well.           Tensioner    A system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. The guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is provided for them.           Thermal desorption    The process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings.           Tiebacks (Subsea)    A series of flowlines and pipes that connect numerous subsea wellheads to a single collection point.           Top drive    A device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill stem. It also includes power tongs. Modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. Even though the rotary table assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops.           Torque wrench    Spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection.           Trouble cost    Costs incurred as a result of unanticipated complications while drilling a well. These costs are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well.           Well completion    1. The activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the surface. 2. The system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths.           Wellhead    The termination point of a wellbore at surface level or subsea, often incorporating various valves and control instruments.           Well stimulation    Any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing.           Well workover    The performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oil well to try to increase production. Examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing.           Wellbore    A borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. A wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. Also called a borehole or hole.           Wireline    A slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. Also called slick line.      ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS