Item 1A. Risk Factors  The following supplements the factors that could have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition as described under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A. of Part I of our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The integration of acquired companies may not be as successful as we anticipate.  Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including financial risks such as potential liabilities associated with the acquired business. Difficulties in integrating an acquired company may result in the acquired company performing differently than we currently expect or in our failure to realize anticipated expense-related efficiencies. For example, our recent acquisition of Combined Insurance Company of America and certain of its subsidiaries resulted in our obtaining a large new sales force, creating new distribution channels for the Company. These changes to our distribution system may require management to divert its attention from other operational matters and could create new liabilities for us.  The regulatory regimes under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have an adverse effect on our business.  Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries conduct business globally, including in all 50 states of the United States and the District of Columbia. Our businesses in each of these jurisdictions are subject to varying degrees of regulation and supervision. The laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are domiciled require, among other things, that these subsidiaries maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus, and liquidity, meet solvency standards, and submit to periodic examinations of their financial condition. In some jurisdictions, laws and regulations also restrict payments of dividends and reductions of capital. Applicable statutes, regulations, and policies may also restrict the ability of these subsidiaries to write insurance and reinsurance policies, to make certain investments, and to distribute funds. The purpose of insurance laws and regulations generally is to protect insureds and ceding insurance companies, not our shareholders. We may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, applicable statutes and regulations. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under     57    Table of Contents  any applicable laws and regulations could result in restrictions on our ability to do business or undertake activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business and could subject us to fines and other sanctions. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject could have an adverse effect on our business.   Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds