Item 1A. Risk Factors  The following supplements the risk factors that could have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition as described under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A. of Part I of our 2009 Form 10-K and should be read in conjunction with those disclosures. The Risk Factor listed in our 2009 Form 10-K under the subheading, “The regulatory and political regimes under which we operate, and their volatility, could have an adverse effect on our business.” is amended and restated to read in its entirety as set forth below.  The regulatory and political regimes under which we operate, and their volatility, could have an adverse effect on our business.  Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries conduct business globally. Our businesses in each jurisdiction are subject to varying degrees of regulation and supervision. The laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are domiciled require, among other things, maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus, and liquidity, various solvency standards, and periodic examinations of their financial condition. In some jurisdictions, laws and regulations also restrict payments of dividends and reductions of capital. Applicable statutes, regulations, and policies may also restrict the ability of these subsidiaries to write insurance and reinsurance policies, to make certain investments, and to distribute funds. The purpose of insurance laws and regulations generally is to protect insureds and ceding insurance companies, not our shareholders.  The insurance industry is affected by political, judicial, and legal developments that may create new and expanded regulations and theories of liability. The current economic climate and the recent financial crisis present additional uncertainties and risks relating to increased regulation and the potential for increased involvement of the U.S. and other governments in the financial services industry.  In July 2010, the U.S. enacted comprehensive financial reform legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”), which creates a new regulatory regime for financial services companies. Among other things, the legislation calls for the creation of a Federal Insurance Office, or    95    Table of Contents  FIO, that will focus on systemic risk oversight and will develop Federal policy on prudential aspects of international insurance matters. The FIO is also required to conduct a study for submission to the U.S. Congress on how to modernize and improve insurance regulation in the U.S. While the impact to ACE of the establishment and activity of the FIO is not clear, it is possible that it could have an adverse effect on our business and operations. Moreover, in the coming months various Federal regulatory agencies such as the SEC will be promulgating regulations in furtherance of the Dodd-Frank Act provisions, and some of these new regulations could require us to change how we conduct and manage our business and could adversely affect us. It is also expected that one or more Federal funds could be created by way of assessments on financial services companies, and it is unclear how and to what extent these requirements might apply to us and whether we would have to make material contributions.  The European Union’s executive body, the European Commission, is implementing new capital adequacy and risk management regulations called Solvency II that would apply to our businesses across the European Union. In addition, regulators in countries where we have operations are working with the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (and in the U.S., with the National Association of Insurance Commissioners) to consider changes to insurance company supervision, including solvency requirements and group supervision.  We may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, applicable statutes and regulations which could have an adverse effect on our business; as could changes in the laws and regulations that apply to us. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under any applicable laws and regulations could result in restrictions on our ability to do business or undertake activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business and could subject us to fines and other sanctions.  Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds