ITEM 1A. Risk FactorsThe following supplements the risk factors that could have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition as described under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I of our 2014 Form 10-K. The Risk Factors listed in our 2014 Form 10-K under the subheadings, "The integration of acquired companies may not be as successful as we anticipate." and "We may require additional capital or financing sources in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms." are amended and restated to read in its entirety as set forth below.The integration of acquired companies may not be as successful as we anticipate.Acquisitions, such as our proposed acquisition of The Chubb Corporation (Chubb) through a merger (the Chubb Merger), involve numerous operational, strategic, financial, accounting, legal, tax and other risks; potential liabilities associated with the acquired businesses; and uncertainties related to design, operation and integration of acquired businesses’ internal controls over financial reporting. Difficulties in integrating an acquired company may result in the acquired company performing differently than we expected, in operational challenges or in our failure to realize anticipated expense-related efficiencies. Our existing businesses could also be negatively impacted by acquisitions. In addition, goodwill and intangible assets recorded in connection with insurance company acquisitions may be impaired if premium growth, underwriting profitability, agency retention and policy persistency, among other factors, differ from expectations.There is also the potential that proposed acquisitions that have been publicly announced, such as our proposed Chubb Merger, will not be consummated, even if a definitive agreement has been signed by the parties. If an agreement is terminated before closing, the result would be that our proposed acquisition would not occur, which could, among other things, expose us to damages or liability and adversely impact our stock price and future operations.Failure to complete the Chubb Merger could negatively impact the price of our Common Shares, as well as our future business and financial results.The Agreement and Plan of Merger for the Chubb Merger (the Merger Agreement) contains a number of conditions that must be satisfied or waived prior to the completion of the Chubb Merger. We cannot assure that all of the conditions to the Chubb Merger will be so satisfied or waived. If the conditions to the Chubb Merger are not satisfied or waived, we may be unable to complete the Chubb Merger.If the Chubb Merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected as follows:79Table of Contents•we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on the market price of our Common Shares;•the manner in which brokers, insureds, cedants and other third parties perceive us may be negatively impacted, which in turn could affect our ability to compete for or write new business or obtain renewals in the marketplace;•we may experience negative reactions from employees; and•we will have expended time and resources that could otherwise have been spent on our existing business and the pursuit of other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us and our ongoing business and financial results may be adversely affected. Whether or not the Chubb Merger is completed, shareholder lawsuits could be filed challenging the acquisition. If this occurs, even if the lawsuits are groundless and we ultimately prevail, we may incur substantial legal fees and expenses defending and/or settling these lawsuits and the Chubb Merger may be prevented or delayed.Completion of the proposed acquisition is conditioned upon the approval by ACE Limited’s and Chubb’s shareholders and the receipt of certain governmental approvals, including, without limitation, insurance regulatory approvals and the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended. Although each party has agreed to use respective reasonable best efforts to obtain the requisite shareholder and governmental approvals, we cannot assure that these approvals will be obtained and that the other conditions to closing will be satisfied. In addition, the governmental authorities from which the regulatory approvals are required may impose conditions on the completion of the proposed acquisition or require changes to the terms of the proposed acquisition. Each party’s obligation to consummate the Chubb Merger is subject to the condition that the required governmental approvals have been obtained without the imposition of a “Materially Burdensome Regulatory Condition” (as defined in the Merger Agreement). Even if we complete the Chubb Merger, we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the proposed Chubb Merger.The success of the proposed Chubb Merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining our businesses. The anticipated benefits and cost savings of the proposed Chubb Merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected or could have other adverse effects that we do not currently foresee. Some of the assumptions that we have made, such as the achievement of operating synergies, may not be realized. The integration process may, for each company, result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. There could be potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses associated with the Chubb Merger that were not discovered in the course of performing due diligence.We will require additional capital or financing sources in the future, including for the Chubb Merger, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms.Our future capital and financing requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses, as well as our investment performance and capital expenditure obligations, including with respect to acquisitions. We may need to raise additional funds through financings or access funds through existing or new credit facilities or through short-term repurchase agreements. We also from time to time seek to refinance debt or credit as amounts become due or commitments expire. Any equity or debt financing or refinancing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result, and in any case, such securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges that are senior to those of our Common Shares. Our access to funds under existing credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. If we cannot obtain adequate capital or sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, we could be forced to use assets otherwise available for our business operations, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected.ACE is obligated to complete the Chubb Merger whether or not it has sufficient funds to pay the cash consideration under the Merger Agreement. ACE intends to pay the cash consideration using cash on hand, cash sourced from certain of its subsidiaries and Chubb and certain of Chubb’s subsidiaries and debt financing. The availability of cash at certain of ACE’s or Chubb’s subsidiaries may be subject to prior regulatory approvals, which may not be received in a timely fashion or at all. In addition, although ACE believes, based on current market conditions, that it will be able to complete the contemplated debt financing, ACE cannot provide assurances as to the ultimate cost or availability of financing for the Chubb Merger. 80Table of ContentsITEM 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds