ITEM 1A. Risk FactorsThe following supplements the risk factors that could have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition as described under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I of our 2014 Form 10-K. Risks Relating to the Planned Acquisition of Chubb (Chubb Merger) The Merger Agreement may be terminated in accordance with its terms and the Chubb Merger may not be completed. The Agreement and Plan of Merger for the Chubb Merger (Merger Agreement) is subject to a number of conditions that must be fulfilled in order to complete the Chubb Merger, including (i) receipt of required governmental approvals, including insurance regulatory approvals, (ii) the ACE common shares to be issued in connection with the Chubb Merger being approved for listing on the New York Stock Exchange and (iii) other customary closing conditions.In addition, if the Chubb Merger is not completed by June 30, 2016, either ACE or Chubb may choose not to proceed with the Chubb Merger, and the parties can mutually decide to terminate the Merger Agreement at any time. In addition, ACE and Chubb may elect to terminate the Merger Agreement in certain other circumstances. Failure to complete the Chubb Merger could negatively impact the price of ACE common shares and Chubb common stock, as well as ACE’s and Chubb’s respective future business and financial results.The Merger Agreement contains a number of conditions that must be satisfied or waived prior to the completion of the Chubb Merger. There can be no assurance that all of the conditions to the Chubb Merger will be so satisfied or waived. If the conditions to the Chubb Merger are not satisfied or waived, ACE and Chubb will be unable to complete the Chubb Merger.If the Chubb Merger is not completed for any reason, ACE’s and Chubb’s respective businesses and financial results may be adversely affected as follows:•ACE and Chubb may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on the market price of ACE common shares and Chubb common stock;•the manner in which brokers, customers, insurers, cedants and other third parties perceive ACE and Chubb may be negatively impacted, which in turn could affect ACE’s and Chubb’s ability to compete for or write new business or obtain renewals in the marketplace;•ACE and Chubb may experience negative reactions from employees; and•ACE and Chubb will have expended time and resources that could otherwise have been spent on ACE’s and Chubb’s existing businesses and the pursuit of other opportunities that could have been beneficial to each company, and ACE’s and Chubb’s ongoing business and financial results may be adversely affected.84Table of ContentsIn addition to the above risks, if the Merger Agreement is terminated and either party’s board of directors seeks an alternative transaction, such party’s shareholders cannot be certain that such party will be able to find a party willing to engage in a transaction on more attractive terms than the Chubb Merger. If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, Chubb may be required to pay a termination fee of $930 million to ACE.Regulatory approvals may not be received, may take longer than expected to be received or may impose conditions that are not presently anticipated or cannot be met. Completion of the Chubb Merger remains conditioned upon the receipt of certain governmental approvals, including, without limitation, insurance regulatory approvals. Although each party has agreed to use respective reasonable best efforts to obtain the requisite governmental approvals, there can be no assurance that these approvals will be obtained and that the other conditions to completing the Chubb Merger will be satisfied. In addition, the governmental authorities from which the regulatory approvals are required may impose conditions on the completion of the Chubb Merger or require changes to the terms of the Chubb Merger or Merger Agreement. Such conditions or changes and the process of obtaining regulatory approvals could have the effect of delaying or impeding completion of the Chubb Merger or of imposing additional costs or limitations on ACE following completion of the Chubb Merger, any of which might have an adverse effect on ACE following completion of the Chubb Merger. Each party’s obligation to complete the Chubb Merger is subject to the condition that the required governmental approvals have been obtained without the imposition of a condition or restriction that would reasonably be likely to have a material and adverse effect on ACE and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, giving effect to the Chubb Merger (with such materiality measured on a scale relative to Chubb and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole). Chubb will be subject to business uncertainties while the Chubb Merger is pending, which could adversely affect its business. Uncertainty about the effect of the Chubb Merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on Chubb, and, consequently, ACE. These uncertainties may impair Chubb’s ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the Chubb Merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers and others that deal with Chubb to seek to change their existing business relationships with Chubb or cease doing business with Chubb. Employee retention at Chubb may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the Chubb Merger, as employees may experience uncertainty about their roles with ACE following the Chubb Merger and may become distracted as a result of such uncertainty. In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts Chubb from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions without the consent of ACE, and generally requires Chubb to continue its operations in the ordinary course, until completion of the Chubb Merger. These restrictions may prevent Chubb from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the Chubb Merger or otherwise adversely affect Chubb’s ability to do business. ACE and Chubb will incur significant transaction and Chubb Merger-related costs in connection with the Chubb Merger. Each of ACE and Chubb has incurred and will incur substantial expenses in connection with the negotiation and completion of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, including the costs and expenses of filing, printing and mailing the joint proxy statement/prospectus for the ACE and Chubb shareholder meetings and all filing and other fees paid to the SEC in connection with the Chubb Merger. ACE and Chubb expect to continue to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with completing the Chubb Merger, combining the operations of the two companies and achieving desired synergies. These fees and costs have been, and will continue to be, substantial. The substantial majority of non-recurring expenses will consist of transaction costs related to the Chubb Merger and include, among others, employee retention costs, fees paid to financial, legal and accounting advisors, severance and benefit costs and filing fees. ACE also will incur transaction fees and costs related to formulating and implementing integration plans, including facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs. ACE continues to assess the magnitude of these costs, and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the Chubb Merger and the integration of the two companies’ businesses. Although ACE expects that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow ACE to offset integration-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. These costs described above, as well as other unanticipated costs and expenses, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and operating results of ACE following the completion of the Chubb Merger. 85Table of ContentsLitigation relating to the Chubb Merger could require ACE and Chubb to incur significant costs and suffer management distraction, as well as prevent and/or delay the Chubb Merger. In connection with the Chubb Merger, purported Chubb shareholders have filed putative shareholder class action lawsuits against Chubb, the members of the Chubb board of directors, ACE, and William Investment Holdings Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ACE. Among other remedies, the plaintiffs seek to enjoin the Chubb Merger. The outcome of any such litigation is uncertain. On October 12, 2015, ACE announced that a memorandum of understanding (MOU) has been entered into regarding settlement of such litigation. The MOU is subject to confirmatory discovery and customary conditions and if the court does not approve the settlement, or if the settlement is otherwise disallowed, the proposed settlement as contemplated by the MOU may be terminated. If the cases are not resolved, these lawsuits could prevent or delay completion of the Chubb Merger and result in substantial costs to Chubb and ACE, including any costs associated with the indemnification of directors and officers. Plaintiffs may file additional lawsuits against Chubb, ACE and/or the directors and officers of either company in connection with the Chubb Merger. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains unresolved at the time the Chubb Merger is completed may adversely affect ACE’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ACE will require additional capital or financing sources for the Chubb Merger or in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms. ACE intends to pay the cash consideration using cash on hand, cash sourced from certain of its subsidiaries and Chubb and certain of Chubb’s insurance company subsidiaries and the net proceeds from ACE INA’s issuance of senior notes. The availability to ACE or Chubb of cash currently held at certain of ACE’s or Chubb’s subsidiaries may be subject to prior regulatory approvals, which may not be received in a timely fashion or at all. ACE’s future capital and financing requirements depend on many factors, including its ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses, as well as its investment performance and capital expenditure obligations, including with respect to acquisitions. ACE may need to raise additional funds through financings or access funds through existing or new credit facilities or through short-term repurchase agreements. ACE also from time to time seeks to refinance debt or credit as amounts become due or commitments expire. Any equity or debt financing or refinancing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to ACE. In the case of equity financings, dilution to ACE’s shareholders could result, and in any case, such securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges that are senior to those of ACE common shares. ACE’s access to funds under existing credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. If ACE cannot obtain adequate capital or sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, it could be forced to use assets otherwise available for its business operations, and its business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. The effective tax rate that will apply to ACE is uncertain and may vary from expectations. There can be no assurance that the Chubb Merger will allow ACE to maintain any particular worldwide effective corporate tax rate. No assurances can be given as to what ACE’s effective tax rate will be after the completion of the Chubb Merger because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where it operates. ACE’s actual effective tax rate may vary from its expectations and that variance may be material. If Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code were to apply as a result of the Chubb Merger, then ACE may be required to pay substantial additional U.S. federal income taxes going forward. Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code) would apply if, (i) the percentage (by vote and value) of ACE common shares considered to be held by former Chubb shareholders immediately after the Chubb Merger by reason of holding Chubb common stock as calculated for Section 7874 purposes (the Section 7874 Percentage) is at least 60 percent, and (ii) the expanded affiliated group that includes ACE does not have substantial business activities in Switzerland. Determining the Section 7874 Percentage is complex and, with respect to the Chubb Merger, subject to factual and legal uncertainties, including the uncertain scope and application of possible regulatory action under Section 7874 announced by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department in Notice 2014-52. If the Section 7874 Percentage were determined to be at least 60 percent, several limitations could apply to ACE. For example, Chubb would be prohibited from using its net operating losses, foreign tax credits or other tax attributes, if any, to offset the income or gain recognized by reason of the transfer of property to a foreign related person during the 10-year period following the Chubb Merger or any income received or accrued during such period by reason of a license of any property by the U.S. corporation to a foreign related person. In addition, the IRS has announced that it intends to promulgate new rules, which may limit the ability to engage in certain restructuring transactions relating to the non-U.S. members of the ACE Group after the Chubb Merger. Additionally, recent legislative, regulatory and treaty proposals in the United States would impose certain 86Table of Contentsearnings stripping limitations and reduce potential tax treaty benefits with respect to ACE and its affiliates if the Section 7874 Percentage is calculated to be at least 60 percent. Section 7874 is not expected to apply as a result of the Chubb Merger because the former Chubb shareholders are expected to receive less than 60 percent of the ACE common shares (by vote or value) by reason of holding Chubb common stock. However, it is possible that there could be a change in law under Section 7874 or otherwise (including the promulgation of regulations announced by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department in Notice 2014-52) that could, prospectively or retroactively, adversely affect ACE and its affiliates. Risks Relating to the Combined Company Upon Completion of the Chubb MergerThe integration of Chubb into ACE may not be as successful as anticipated. The Chubb Merger involves numerous operational, strategic, financial, accounting, legal, tax and other risks; potential liabilities associated with the acquired businesses; and uncertainties related to design, operation and integration of Chubb’s internal control over financial reporting. Difficulties in integrating Chubb into ACE may result in Chubb performing differently than expected, in operational challenges or in the failure to realize anticipated expense-related efficiencies. ACE’s and Chubb’s existing businesses could also be negatively impacted by the Chubb Merger. In addition, goodwill and intangible assets recorded in connection with insurance company acquisitions may be impaired if premium growth, underwriting profitability, agency retention and policy persistency, among other factors, differ from expectations. Even if ACE and Chubb complete the Chubb Merger, ACE may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Chubb Merger. The success of the Chubb Merger will depend, in part, on ACE’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining ACE’s and Chubb’s businesses. The anticipated benefits and cost savings of the Chubb Merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected or could have other adverse effects that ACE does not currently foresee. Some of the assumptions that ACE has made, such as the achievement of operating synergies, may not be realized. The integration process may, for each of ACE and Chubb, result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. There could be potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses associated with the Chubb Merger that were not discovered in the course of performing due diligence. ACE’s results will suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded operations following the Chubb Merger. Following completion of the Chubb Merger, ACE’s success will depend, in part, on its ability to manage its expansion through the completion of the Chubb Merger, which poses numerous risks and uncertainties, including the need to integrate the operations and business of Chubb into its existing business in an efficient and timely manner, to combine systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with customers, vendors and business partners.ITEM 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds