ITEM 1A. Risk FactorsThe following supplements the risk factors that could have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition as described under "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part I of our 2015 Form 10-K. Political uncertainty in the United Kingdom and the European Union may lead to volatility and/or have an adverse effect on our business, our liquidity and financial condition, and our stock price.On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom voted in a national referendum to withdraw from the European Union. The result of the referendum does not legally obligate the United Kingdom to exit the European Union, and it is unclear if or when the United Kingdom will formally serve notice to the European Council of its desire to withdraw, a process that is unprecedented in European Union history, and one that could involve months or years of negotiation to draft and approve a withdrawal agreement in accordance with Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union. Regardless of any eventual timing or terms of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union, the June referendum has created significant political, social, and macroeconomic uncertainty. As a result of this uncertainty, in the immediate wake of the UK referendum, stock exchange indices around the world, and in the United Kingdom in particular, declined significantly. In addition, the pound sterling experienced sharp depreciation following the vote. Refer to Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk under Part I, Item 3 for additional information on our foreign currency management. Also, within one day of the referendum, Moody’s, Fitch and S&P each downgraded the outlook of the UK government’s bond rating from stable to negative warning that the country’s economic growth and fiscal strength are likely to be lower in the event the United Kingdom exits the European Union. The possible exit of the United Kingdom (or any other country) from the European Union, the potential withdrawal of Scotland or Northern Ireland from the United Kingdom, or prolonged periods of uncertainty relating to any of these possibilities could result in significant macroeconomic deterioration including, but not limited to, further decreases in global stock exchange indices, increased foreign exchange volatility (in particular a further weakening of the pound sterling and euro against other leading currencies), decreased GDP in the United Kingdom, and a downgrade of the United Kingdom’s sovereign credit rating. In addition, there are increasing concerns that these events could push the United Kingdom, Eurozone, and/or United States into an economic recession any of which, were they to occur, would further destabilize the global financial markets and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have significant operations in the UK and other EU member states. Depending on the final terms of the UK exit, we may be required to reorganize our operations and legal entity structure in the UK and the EU in a manner that could be less efficient and more expensive. The result of the June referendum has also raised concerns regarding the terms for future UK access to the EU Single Market, which is made up of the 27 other EU member states and, to some extent, Iceland, Liechtenstein, and Norway (together, the European Economic Area or EEA). The rules governing the EU Single Market requires local risks to be underwritten by a local authorized insurer; an EEA authorized insurer or a non-local insurer with the benefit of an EU “passport”. As such, UK insurers, including us, are able to underwrite risks from the UK into EEA member states via a “passport”. In the event that, following the 107Table of ContentsUK’s withdrawal from the EU, UK insurers were unable to access the EU Single Market via a passporting arrangement, a regulatory equivalence regime or other similar arrangement, such insurers may not be able to underwrite risks into EEA member states except through local branches incorporated in the EEA. Such branches might require local authorization, regulatory and prudential supervision, and capital to be deposited. Any change to the terms of the UK’s access to the EU Single Market following the withdrawal of the UK from the EU could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.In addition, Lloyd’s currently benefits from EU Single Market passporting arrangements, which allow its syndicates and coverholders to write business in EEA member states. Lloyd’s might not be able to maintain such passporting rights or equivalent rights following the withdrawal of the UK from the EU, which could restrict our ability to write business in the EEA through Lloyd’s syndicates and coverholders and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.ITEM 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds