Item 1A. Risk Factors  Our business involves various risks and uncertainties that may affect achievement of our business objectives. Many of the risks could have ramifications across our organization. For example, while risks related to setting insurance rates and establishing and adjusting loss reserves are insurance activities, errors in these areas could have an impact on our investment activities, growth and overall results. The following discussion should be viewed as a starting point for understanding the significant risks we face. It is not a definitive summary of their potential impacts or of our strategies to manage and control the risks. Please see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Page 37, for a discussion of those strategies.  The risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones we face. There are additional risks and uncertainties that we currently do not believe are material at this time. There also may be risks and uncertainties of which we are not aware. If any risks or uncertainties discussed here develop into actual events, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that case, the market price of our common stock could decline materially.  Readers should carefully consider this information together with the other information we have provided in this report and in other reports and materials we file periodically with the Securities and Exchange Commission as well as news releases and other information we disseminate publicly.  We rely exclusively on independent insurance agents to distribute our products.  We market our products through independent, non-exclusive insurance agents. These agents are not obligated to promote our products and can and do sell our competitors’ products. We must offer insurance products that meet the needs of these agencies and their clients. We need to maintain good relationships with the agencies that market our products. If we do not, these agencies may market our competitors’ products instead of ours, which may lead to us having a less desirable mix of business and could affect our results of operations.  Events or conditions that could diminish our agents’ desire to produce business for us and the competitive advantage that our independent agencies enjoy:     •   Downgrade of the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries. We believe our strong insurer financial strength ratings, in particular the A+ (Superior) rating from A.M. Best for our standard market property casualty insurance subsidiaries, are an important competitive advantage. Ratings agencies could change or expand their requirements. If our property casualty ratings were to be further downgraded, our agents might find it more difficult to market our products or might choose to emphasize the products of other carriers. See Item 1, Our Business and Our Strategy, Page 1, for additional discussion of our financial strength ratings.      •   Concerns that doing business with us is difficult or not profitable, perceptions that our level of service is no longer a distinguishing characteristic in the marketplace, or perceptions that our business practices are not compatible with agents’ business models. These issues could occur if agents or policyholders believe that we are no longer providing the prompt, reliable personal service that has long been a distinguishing characteristic of our insurance operations.      •   Delays in the development, implementation, performance and benefits of technology projects and enhancements or independent agent perceptions that our technology solutions are inadequate to match their needs.    A reduction in the number of independent agencies marketing our products, the failure of agencies to successfully market our products or the choice of agencies to reduce their writings of our products could affect our results of operations if we are unable to replace them with agencies that produce adequate and profitable premiums. We could lose premium if a bank that owns appointed agencies changes its strategies.  Further, policyholders may choose a competitor’s product rather than our own because of real or perceived differences in price, terms and conditions, coverage or service. If the quality of the independent agencies with which we do business were to decline, that also might cause policyholders to purchase their insurance through different agencies or channels. Consumers, especially in the personal insurance segments, may increasingly choose to purchase insurance from distribution channels other than independent insurance agents, such as direct marketers.  We could experience an unusually high level of losses due to catastrophic, pandemic or terrorism events or risk concentrations.  In the normal course of our business, we provide coverage against perils for which estimates of losses are highly uncertain, in particular catastrophic and terrorism events. Catastrophes can be caused by a number of events, including hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, explosions, severe winter weather and fires. Due to the nature of these events, we are unable to predict precisely the frequency or  Cincinnati Financial Corporation — 2008 Annual Report on 10-K — Page 25       Table of Contents  potential cost of catastrophe occurrences. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Our ability to appropriately manage catastrophe risk depends partially on catastrophe models, the accuracy of which may be impacted by inaccurate or incomplete data, the uncertainty of the frequency and severity of future events and the uncertain impact of climate change.  The geographic regions in which we market insurance are exposed to numerous natural catastrophes, such as:     •   Hurricanes in the gulf, eastern and southeastern coastal regions.      •   Earthquakes in the New Madrid fault zone, which lies within the central Mississippi valley, extending from northeast Arkansas through southeast Missouri, western Tennessee and western Kentucky to southern Illinois, southern Indiana and parts of Ohio.      •   Tornado, wind and hail in the Midwest, South and Southeast and, to a certain extent, the mid-Atlantic.    The occurrence of terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve could result in substantially higher claims under our insurance policies than we have anticipated. While we do insure terrorism risk in all areas we serve, we have identified our major terrorism exposure as general commercial risks in the metropolitan Chicago area as well as small co-op utilities, small shopping malls and small colleges throughout our 35 active states. Additionally, our life insurance subsidiary could be adversely affected in the event of a terrorist event or an epidemic such as the avian flu, particularly if the epidemic were to affect a broad range of the population beyond just the very young or the very old. Our associate health plan is self-funded and could similarly be affected.  Our results of operations would be adversely affected if the level of losses we experience over a period of time exceeds our actuarially determined expectations. In addition, our financial condition would be adversely affected if we were required to sell securities prior to maturity or at unfavorable prices to pay an unusually high level of loss and loss expenses. Securities pricing might be even less favorable if a number of insurance companies needed to sell securities during a short period of time because of unusually high losses from catastrophic events.  Our geographic concentration ties our performance to business, economic, environmental and regulatory conditions in certain states. We market our property casualty insurance products in 35 states, but our business is concentrated in the Midwest and Southeast. We also have exposure in states where we do not actively market insurance when clients of our independent agencies have businesses or properties in multiple states.  The Cincinnati Insurance Company also participates in three assumed reinsurance treaties with two reinsurers that spread the risk of very high catastrophe losses among many insurers. In 2009, we have exposure of up to $7 million of assumed losses in three layers, from $1.0 billion to $1.7 billion, from a single event under an assumed reinsurance treaty for Munich Re Group. The other two assumed reinsurance treaties are immaterial.  In the event of a severe catastrophic event or terrorist attack elsewhere in the world, our insurance losses may be immaterial. However, the companies in which we invest might be severely affected, which could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our reinsurers might experience significant losses, potentially jeopardizing their ability to pay losses we cede to them. We also may be exposed to state guaranty fund assessments if other carriers in a state cannot meet their obligations to policyholders. A catastrophe or epidemic event also could affect our operations by damaging our headquarters facility, injuring associates and visitors at our Fairfield, Ohio, headquarters or disrupting our associates’ ability to perform their assigned tasks.  Our ability to achieve our performance objectives could be affected by changes in the financial, credit and capital markets or the general economy.  We invest premiums received from policyholders and other available cash to generate investment income and capital appreciation, maintaining sufficient liquidity to pay covered claims and operating expenses, service our debt obligations and pay dividends.  Investment income is an important component of our revenues and net income. The ability to increase investment income and generate longer-term growth in book value is affected by factors that are beyond our control, such as inflation, economic growth, interest rates, world political conditions, terrorism attacks or threats, adverse events affecting other companies in our industry or the industries in which we invest, market events leading to credit constriction and other widespread unpredictable events. These events may adversely affect the economy generally and could cause our investment income or the value of securities we own to decrease. A significant decline in our investment income could have an adverse effect on our net income, and thereby on our shareholders’ equity and our policyholders’ surplus. For more detailed discussion of risks associated with our investments, please refer to Item 7A, Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk, Page 85.  Cincinnati Financial Corporation — 2008 Annual Report on 10-K — Page 26       Table of Contents  We issue life contracts with guaranteed minimum returns, referred to as bank-owned life insurance contracts (BOLIs). BOLI investment assets must meet certain criteria established by the regulatory authorities in which jurisdiction the group contract holder is subject. Therefore, sales of investments may be mandated to maintain compliance with these regulations, possibly requiring gains or losses to be recorded. We could experience losses if the assets in the accounts are less than liabilities at the time of maturity or termination. We discuss other risks associated with our separate account BOLIs in Item 7, Critical Accounting Estimates, Separate Accounts, Page 47.  Further deterioration in the banking sector or in banks with which we have relationships could affect our results of operations. Our ability to maintain or obtain short-term lines of credit could be affected if the banks from which we obtain these lines are purchased, fail or are otherwise negatively affected. The value of corporate bonds and common equities we hold in the banking sector could further deteriorate. We may lose premium if a bank that owns appointed agencies changes its strategies. We could experience increased losses in our directors and officers liability line of business if claims are made against insured financial institutions.  Our investment performance also could suffer because of the types or concentrations of investments, industry groups and/or individual securities in which we choose to invest. Market value changes related to these choices could cause a material change in our financial condition or results of operations.  At year-end 2008, common stock holdings made up 30.6 percent of our invested assets. Adverse news or events affecting the global or U.S. economy or the equity markets could affect our net income, book value and overall results as well as our ability to pay our common stock dividend. See Item 7, Investments Results of Operations, Page 66, and Item 7A, Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk, Page 85, for discussion of our investment activities.  Deteriorating credit and market conditions could also impair our ability to access credit markets and could affect existing or future lending arrangements.  Our overall results could be affected if a significant portion of our commercial lines policyholders, including those purchasing surety bonds, are adversely affected by marked or prolonged economic downturns and events such as a downturn in construction and related sectors, tightening credit markets and higher fuel costs. Such events could make it more difficult for policyholders to finance new projects, complete projects or expand their businesses, leading to lower premiums from reduced payrolls and sales and lower purchases of equipment and vehicles. These events could also cause claims, including surety claims, to increase due to a policyholder’s inability to secure necessary financing to complete projects or to collect on underlying lines of credit in the claims process. Such economic downturns and events could have a greater impact in the construction sector where we have a concentration of risks and in geographic areas that are hardest hit by economic downturns.  Deteriorating economic conditions could also increase the degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents who collect premiums for payment to us and could hamper our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers.  Our ability to properly underwrite and price risks and increased competition could adversely affect our results.  Our financial condition, cash flow and results of operations depend on our ability to underwrite and set rates accurately for a full spectrum of risks. We establish our pricing based on assumptions about the level of losses that may occur within classes of business, geographic regions and other criteria.  To properly price our products, we must collect and properly analyze data; the data must be sufficient, reliable and accessible; we need to develop appropriate rating methodologies and formulae; and we may need to identify and respond to trends quickly. If rates are not accurate, we may not generate enough premiums to offset losses and expenses or we may not be competitive in the marketplace.  Setting appropriate rates could be hampered if a state or states where we write business refuses to allow rate increases that we believe are necessary to cover the risks insured. At least one state requires us to purchase reinsurance from a mandatory reinsurance fund. Such reinsurance funds can create a credit risk for insurers if not adequately funded by the state and, in some cases, the existence of a reinsurance fund could affect the prices charged for our policies. The effect of these and similar arrangements could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business.  The insurance industry is cyclical and intensely competitive. From time to time, the insurance industry goes through prolonged periods of intense competition during which it is more difficult to attract new business, retain existing business and maintain profitability. Competition in our insurance business is based on many factors, including:     •   Competitiveness of premiums charged      •   Relationships among carriers, agents, brokers and policyholders    Cincinnati Financial Corporation — 2008 Annual Report on 10-K — Page 27       Table of Contents     •   Underwriting and pricing methodologies that allow insurers to identify and flexibly price risks      •   Compensation provided to agents      •   Underwriting discipline      •   Terms and conditions of insurance coverage      •   Speed at which products are brought to market      •   Product and marketing innovations, including advertising      •   Technological competence and innovation      •   Ability to control expenses      •   Adequacy of financial strength ratings by independent ratings agencies such as A.M. Best      •   Quality of services provided to agents and policyholders      •   Claims satisfaction and reputation    If our pricing is incorrect or we are unable to compete effectively because of one or more of these factors, our premium writings could decline and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.  Please see the discussion of our Commercial Lines, Personal Lines and Life Insurance Segments in Item 1, Page 11, Page 14 and Page 16, for a discussion of our competitive position in the insurance marketplace.  Our loss reserves, our largest liability, are based on estimates and could be inadequate to cover our actual losses.  Our consolidated financial statements are prepared using GAAP. These principles require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. For a discussion of the significant accounting policies we use to prepare our financial statements and the material implications of uncertainties associated with the methods, assumptions and estimates underlying our critical accounting policies, please refer to Item 8, Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 98, and Item 7, Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves and Life Insurance Policy Reserves, Page 41 and Page 44.  Our most critical accounting estimate is loss reserves. Loss reserves are the amounts we expect to pay for covered claims and expenses we incur to settle those claims. The loss reserves we establish in our financial statements represent an estimate of amounts needed to pay and administer claims arising from insured events that have already occurred, including events that have not yet been reported to us. Loss reserves are estimates and are inherently uncertain; they do not and cannot represent an exact measure of liability. Accordingly, our loss reserves for past periods could prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses and related expenses. Any changes in these estimates are reflected in our results of operations during the period in which the changes are made. An increase in our loss reserves would decrease earnings, while a decrease in our loss reserves would increase earnings.  The estimation process for unpaid loss and loss expense obligations involves uncertainty by its very nature. We continually review the estimates and adjust the reserves as facts about individual claims develop, additional losses are reported and new information becomes known. Adjustments due to loss development on prior periods are reflected in the calendar year in which they are identified. The process used to determine our loss reserves is discussed in Item 7, Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves and Life Insurance Policy Reserves, Page 41 and Page 44.  Unforeseen losses, the type and magnitude of which we cannot predict, may emerge in the future. These additional losses could arise from changes in the legal environment, laws and regulations, climate change, catastrophic events, increases in loss severity or frequency, or other causes. Such future losses could be substantial.  Our ability to obtain or collect on our reinsurance protection could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  We buy property casualty and life reinsurance coverage to mitigate the liquidity risk of an unexpected rise in claims severity or frequency from catastrophic events or a single large loss. The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depend on market conditions and may vary significantly. If we are unable to obtain reinsurance on acceptable terms and in appropriate amounts, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected.  In addition, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. Although we purchase reinsurance to manage our risks and exposures to losses, this reinsurance does not discharge our direct obligations under the policies we write. We would remain liable to our policyholders even if we were unable to recover what we  Cincinnati Financial Corporation — 2008 Annual Report on 10-K — Page 28       Table of Contents  believe we are entitled to receive under our reinsurance contracts. Reinsurers might refuse or fail to pay losses that we cede to them, or they might delay payment. For long-tail claims, the creditworthiness of our reinsurers may change before we can recover amounts to which we are entitled. A reinsurer’s insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with our insurance subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  Prior to 2003, we participated in USAIG, a joint underwriting association of individual insurance companies that collectively functions as a worldwide insurance market for all types of aviation and aerospace accounts. At year-end 2008, 28.6 percent, or $217 million, of our total reinsurance receivables were related to USAIG, primarily for September 11, 2001, events, offset by $226 million of amounts ceded to other pool participants and reinsurers. If the pool participants and reinsurers are unable to fulfill their financial obligations and all security collateral that supports the participants’ obligations becomes worthless, we could be liable for an additional pool liability of $283 million and our financial position and results of operations could be materially affected. Currently all pool participants and reinsurers are financially solvent.  We no longer participate in new business generated by USAIG and its members. Please see Item 7, 2009 Reinsurance Programs, Page 81, for a discussion of our reinsurance treaties.  Our business depends on the uninterrupted operation of our facilities, systems and business functions.  Our business depends on our associate’s ability to perform necessary business functions, such as processing new and renewal policies and claims. We increasingly rely on technology and systems to accomplish these business functions in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion. Our inability to access our headquarters facilities or a failure of technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis or affect the accuracy of transactions. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption or system failure could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, serve our agents and policyholders, pay claims in a timely manner, collect receivables or perform other necessary business functions. If our disaster recovery and business continuity plans did not sufficiently consider, address or reverse the circumstances of an interruption or failure, this could result in a materially adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. This risk is exacerbated because approximately 70 percent of our associates work at our Fairfield, Ohio, headquarters.  The effects of changes in industry practices and regulations on our business are uncertain.  As industry practices and legal, judicial, legislative, regulatory, political, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to insurance pricing, claims, and coverage, may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by impeding our ability to obtain adequate rates for covered risks, extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, unforeseeable emerging and latent claim and coverage issues may not become apparent until some time after we have issued the insurance policies that could be affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a policy is issued.  Further, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), state insurance regulators and state legislators are continually reexamining existing laws and regulations governing insurance companies and insurance holding companies, specifically focusing on modifications to statutory accounting principles, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations that affect a variety of financial and nonfinancial components of our business. Any proposed or future legislation, regulation or NAIC initiatives, if adopted, may be more restrictive on our ability to conduct business than current regulatory requirements or may result in higher costs.  Additionally, laws and regulations may be enacted in the wake of the current financial and credit crises that have adverse affects on our business, potentially including a change from a state-based system of regulation to a system of federal regulation. While we do not participate or intend to seek to participate in the Troubled Asset Relief Program, the effect of it or any similar legislation on our industry and the economy in general is uncertain.  The effects of such changes could adversely affect our results of operations. Please see Item 7, Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves and Life Insurance Policy Reserves, Page 41 and Page 44, for a discussion of our reserving practices.  Managing technology initiatives and meeting new data security requirements are significant challenges.  While technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present short-term cost, implementation and operational risks. In addition, we may have inaccurate expense projections, implementation schedules or expectations regarding the efficacy of the  Cincinnati Financial Corporation — 2008 Annual Report on 10-K — Page 29       Table of Contents  end product. These issues could escalate over time. If we are unable to find and retain employees with key technical knowledge, our ability to develop and deploy key technology solutions could be hampered.  We necessarily collect, use and hold data concerning individuals and businesses with whom we have a relationship. Threats to data security rapidly emerge and change, exposing us to rising costs and competing time constraints to secure our data in accordance with customer expectations and statutory and regulatory requirements. A breach of our security that results in unauthorized access to our data could expose us to data loss, litigation, damages, fines and penalties, significant increases in compliance costs and reputational damage.  Please see Item 1, Strategic Initiatives, Page 7 for a discussion of our technology initiatives.  Our status as an insurance holding company with no direct operations could affect our ability to pay dividends in the future.  Cincinnati Financial Corporation is a holding company that transacts substantially all of its business through its subsidiaries. Our primary assets are the stock in our operating subsidiaries and our investments. Consequently, our cash flow to pay cash dividends and interest on our long-term debt depends on dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries and income earned on investments held at the parent-company level.  Dividends paid to our parent company by our insurance subsidiary are restricted by the insurance laws of Ohio, its domiciliary state. These laws establish minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds and limits. Currently, the maximum dividend that may be paid without prior regulatory approval is limited to the greater of 10 percent of statutory surplus or 100 percent of statutory net income for the prior calendar year, up to the amount of statutory unassigned surplus as of the end of the prior calendar year. Dividends exceeding these limitations may be paid only with prior approval of the Ohio Department of Insurance. Consequently, at times, we might not be able to receive dividends from our insurance subsidiary, or we might not receive dividends in the amounts necessary to meet our debt obligations or to pay dividends on our common stock. This could affect our financial position.  Please see Item 1, Regulation, Page 22, and Item 8, Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 110, for discussion of insurance holding company dividend regulations.    Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments