Item 1A. Risk Factors.  Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 includes a detailed discussion of certain material risk factors facing our company. The information presented below reflects updates and additions to such risk factors and should be read in conjunction with the risk factors and information disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.  The following risk factors have been updated:  Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and government regulations.  Diamond Offshore. The drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration industry and, accordingly, is affected by changing tax and other laws relating to the energy business generally. Diamond Offshore may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. It is also possible that these laws and regulations may in the future add significantly to Diamond Offshore’s operating costs or may significantly limit drilling activity.  Governments in some countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industries. The modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and gas for economic, environmental or other reasons could materially and adversely affect Diamond Offshore’s operations by limiting drilling opportunities.  As awareness of climate change issues increases, governments around the world are beginning to address the matter. This may result in new environmental regulations that may unfavorably impact Diamond Offshore, its suppliers and its customers. Diamond Offshore may be exposed to risks related to new laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use that could decrease the use of oil or natural gas, thus reducing demand for hydrocarbon-based fuel and Diamond Offshore’s drilling services. Governments may also pass laws or regulations encouraging or mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, which may reduce demand for oil and natural gas and Diamond Offshore’s drilling services. In addition, new laws or regulations may require an increase in Diamond Offshore’s capital spending for additional equipment to comply with such requirements and could also result in a reduction in revenues associated with downtime required to install such equipment.  Diamond Offshore’s business involves numerous operating hazards which could expose it to significant losses and significant damage claims. Diamond Offshore is not fully insured against all of these risks and its contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect Diamond Offshore.  Diamond Offshore’s operations are subject to the significant hazards inherent in drilling for oil and gas offshore, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, unstable or faulty sea floor conditions, fires and natural disasters such as hurricanes. The occurrence of any of these types of events could result in the suspension of drilling operations, damage to or destruction of the equipment involved and injury or death to rig personnel, damage to producing or potentially productive oil and gas formations, and oil spillage, oil leaks, well blowouts and extensive uncontrolled fires, any of which could cause significant environmental damage. In addition, offshore drilling operations are subject to perils peculiar to marine operations, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. Any of the foregoing events could result in significant damage or loss to Diamond Offshore’s properties and assets, significant loss of revenues, and significant damage claims against Diamond Offshore, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  Diamond Offshore maintains liability insurance, which includes coverage for environmental damage; however, because of contractual provisions and policy limits, its insurance coverage may not adequately cover Diamond Offshore’s losses and claim costs. In addition, pollution and environmental risks are generally not fully insurable when they are determined to be the result of criminal acts. Also, Diamond Offshore does not typically purchase loss-of-hire    77    Table of Contents  insurance to cover lost revenues when a rig is unable to work. Accordingly, it is possible that its losses from the hazards it faces could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  Operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages.  Generally Diamond Offshore’s contracts with its customers contain contractual rights to indemnity from its customer for, among other things, pollution originating from the well, while Diamond Offshore retains responsibility for pollution originating from the rig. However, Diamond Offshore’s contractual rights to indemnification may be unenforceable or limited due to negligent or willful acts of commission or omission by Diamond Offshore, its subcontractors and/or suppliers and its customers may dispute, or be unable to meet, their contractual indemnification obligations to Diamond Offshore.  Diamond Offshore believes that the policy limit under its marine liability insurance is within the range that is customary for companies of Diamond Offshore’s size in the offshore drilling industry and is appropriate for its business. However, if an accident or other event occurs that exceeds Diamond Offshore’s coverage limits or is not an insurable event under its insurance policies, or is not fully covered by contractual indemnity, it could have a material adverse effect on Diamond Offshore’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. There can be no assurance that Diamond Offshore will continue to carry the insurance it currently maintains, that its insurance will cover all types of losses or that those parties with contractual obligations to indemnify Diamond Offshore will necessarily be financially able to indemnify Diamond Offshore against all of these risks. In addition, no assurance can be made that Diamond Offshore will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers to be reasonable or that Diamond Offshore will be able to obtain insurance against some risks.  Accordingly, the occurrence of any of the hazards Diamond Offshore faces could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  The following new risk factors have been added:  The moratorium on offshore drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and new regulations adopted as a result of the investigation into the Macondo well blowout could negatively impact Diamond Offshore.  On May 30, 2010, following the April 20, 2010 blowout of the Macondo well being drilling by BP plc in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the U.S. government imposed a six-month moratorium on certain drilling activities in water deeper than 500 feet in the GOM and implemented enhanced safety requirements applicable to all drilling activity in the GOM, including drilling activities in water shallower than 500 feet. On June 22, 2010, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana granted a temporary injunction which immediately prohibited enforcement of the moratorium, which was subsequently upheld by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans. The U.S. Department of the Interior, (“DOI”), issued a second drilling moratorium on July 12, 2010 suspending drilling operation on the basis of drilling configurations and technologies regardless of water depth.  In conjunction with the drilling moratorium imposed on May 30, 2010, the DOI issued a new set of recommendations in a 30-Day Safety Alert for offshore energy companies, which provided for, among other things, the recertification of all blowout preventers, enhanced well control practices, blowout prevention and intervention procedures, more rigorous inspections for deepwater drilling operations and expanded safety and training programs for rig workers. These recommendations are being implemented in the form of new regulations by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement, (“BOEMRE”), (formerly known as the Minerals Management Service), under direction of the DOI and are being communicated by means of Notices to Lessees, (“NTLs”). As of July 29, 2010, Diamond Offshore has received two NTLs and a safety alert from the U.S. Coast Guard. Diamond Offshore has complied with the terms of the safety alert and, as of July 29, 2010, are in the process of complying with one of the two NTLs issued thus far. Diamond Offshore believes that the second NTL applies to the lease operator and not the drilling contractor.  The drilling moratorium could result in a number of rigs being, or becoming available to be, moved to locations outside of the GOM, which could potentially put downward pressure on global dayrates and adversely affect Diamond Offshore’s ability to contract its floating rigs that are currently uncontracted or coming off contract. Additional governmental regulations concerning licensing, taxation, equipment specifications, training requirements or other matters could increase the costs of Diamond Offshore’s operations, and escalating costs borne by its customers, along with permitting delays, could reduce exploration and development activity in the GOM and therefore demand for Diamond Offshore’s services. In addition, insurance costs across the industry are expected to increase as a result of the Macondo well blowout, and in the future certain insurance coverage is likely to become more costly, and may become less available or not available at all.    78    Table of Contents Diamond Offshore cannot predict the ultimate duration of the latest drilling moratorium or the potential impact of new regulations that may be adopted relating to the investigation into the Macondo well blowout. The inability to redeploy Diamond Offshore’s rigs impacted by the drilling moratorium, or to obtain dayrates sufficient to cover its additional operating expenses and mobilization costs if such impacted rigs are redeployed in international waters, could adversely affect Diamond Offshore’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, implementation of additional regulations may subject Diamond Offshore to increased costs of operating and/or a reduction in the area of operation in the GOM.  CNA may face increased operating costs and underwriting losses arising from the federal health care reform legislation, as well as health care reform proposals at the state level.  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the related amendments in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, enacted in March 2010, may increase CNA’s operating costs and underwriting losses. This landmark legislation may lead to numerous changes in the health care industry that could create additional operating costs for CNA, particularly with respect to its workers’ compensation and long term care products. These costs might arise through the increased use of health care services by CNA’s claimants or the increased complexities in health care bills that could require additional levels of review. In addition, due to the expected number of new participants in the health care system and the potential for additional malpractice claims, CNA may experience increased underwriting risk in the lines of its business that provide management and professional liability insurance to individuals and businesses engaged in the health care industry. The lines of CNA’s business that provide professional liability insurance to attorneys, accountants and other professionals who advise clients regarding the health care reform legislation may also experience increased underwriting risk due to the complexity of the legislation. As a result, CNA may experience unanticipated underwriting losses with respect to these lines of business. Finally, CNA cannot predict with any certainty the impact of the various health care reform proposals at the state level. Consequently, CNA’s results of operations, equity, business, insurer financial strength and debt ratings could be materially adversely impacted.  CNA is unable to predict the impact of the new federal financial regulatory reform.  The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, enacted in July, 2010, expands the federal presence in insurance oversight. The Act’s requirements include streamlining the state-based regulation of reinsurance and nonadmitted insurance (property or casualty insurance placed from insurers that are eligible to accept insurance, but are not licensed to write insurance in a particular state). The Act also establishes a new Federal Insurance Office within the U.S. Department of the Treasury with powers over all lines of insurance except health insurance, certain long-term care insurance and crop insurance, to, among other things, monitor aspects of the insurance industry, identify issues in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry or the overall financial system, coordinate federal policy on international insurance matters and preempt state insurance measures under certain circumstances. As the Act calls for numerous studies and contemplates further regulation, CNA is unable to predict with any certainty the overall impact the reform will have. As a result, CNA’s results of operations, equity, business, and insurer financial strength and debt ratings could be materially adversely impacted.  Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.