Item 1A Risk Factors in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of factors that may affect the forward-looking statements.  Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.  There were no material changes in our market risk components for the three months ended March 31, 2016. See the Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk included in Item 7A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 2015 for further information. Additional information related to portfolio duration and market conditions is discussed in the Investments section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part I, Item 2.  Item 4. Controls and Procedures.  The Company maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures which are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits to the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), including this report, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported on a timely basis. These disclosure controls and procedures include controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management on a timely basis to allow decisions regarding required disclosure.  The Company’s principal executive officer (“CEO”) and principal financial officer (“CFO”) undertook an evaluation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) as of the end of the period covered by this report. The CEO and CFO have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of March 31, 2016.  There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) identified in connection with the foregoing evaluation that occurred during the quarter ended March 31, 2016 that have materially affected or that are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.    54    Table of Contents PART II. OTHER INFORMATION  Item 1. Legal Proceedings.  None.   Item 1A. Risk Factors.  Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 includes a detailed discussion of certain material risk factors facing our company. No updates or additions have been made to such risk factors as of March 31, 2016.   Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.