Item 1A Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 for further discussion of factors that may affect the forward-looking statements. The following information describes an    65    Table of Contents  addition to the Forward-Looking Statements and should be read in conjunction with the Forward-Looking Statements disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015.  On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the E.U., commonly referred to as “Brexit.” As a result of the referendum, it is currently expected that the British government will formally commence the process to leave the E.U. and begin negotiating the terms of treaties that will govern the U.K.’s future relationship with the E.U. in the first quarter of 2017. Although the terms of any future treaties are unknown, changes in CNA’s international operating platform may be required to allow it to continue to write business in the E.U. after the completion of Brexit. As a result of these changes, the complexity and cost of regulatory compliance of CNA’s European business is likely to increase.  Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.  There were no material changes in our market risk components for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. See the Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk included in Item 7A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 for further information. Additional information related to portfolio duration and market conditions is discussed in the Investments section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part I, Item 2.  Item 4. Controls and Procedures.  The Company maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures which are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits to the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), including this report, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported on a timely basis. These disclosure controls and procedures include controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management on a timely basis to allow decisions regarding required disclosure.  The Company’s principal executive officer (“CEO”) and principal financial officer (“CFO”) undertook an evaluation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) as of the end of the period covered by this report. The CEO and CFO have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of September 30, 2016.  There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) identified in connection with the foregoing evaluation that occurred during the quarter ended September 30, 2016 that have materially affected or that are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.    66    Table of Contents PART II. OTHER INFORMATION  Item 1. Legal Proceedings.  Information on our legal proceedings is set forth in Note 11 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements included under Part I, Item 1.  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 includes a detailed discussion of certain risk factors facing our company. No updates or additions have been made to such risk factors as of September 30, 2016.  Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.