Item 1A. Risk Factors.  Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 includes a detailed discussion of certain risk factors facing the company. The information presented below describes additions to, and supplements, such risk factors and should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors included under Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.  Risks Related to Us and Our Subsidiary, Boardwalk Pipeline  Boardwalk Pipeline’s natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by the FERC, including rules and regulations related to the rates it can charge for its services and its ability to construct or abandon facilities. Boardwalk Pipeline may not be able to recover the full cost of operating its pipelines, including earning a reasonable return.  Boardwalk Pipeline’s natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by the FERC, including the types and terms of services it may offer to its customers, the rates it can charge its customers, construction of new facilities, creation, modification or abandonment of services or facilities and recordkeeping and relationships with affiliated companies. An adverse FERC action in any of these areas could affect its ability to compete for business, construct new facilities, offer new services or recover the full cost of operating its pipelines and other facilities. This regulatory oversight can result in longer lead times to develop and complete any future project than competitors that are not subject to the FERC’s regulations. The FERC can also deny it the right to abandon certain facilities from service.  The FERC regulates the rates Boardwalk Pipeline can charge for its natural gas transportation and storage operations. For its cost-based services, the FERC establishes both the maximum and minimum rates it can charge. The basic elements that the FERC considers are the costs of providing service, the volumes of gas being transported, the rate design, the allocation of costs between services, the capital structure, and the rate of return a pipeline is permitted to earn.  Effective December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 changed several provisions of the federal tax code, including a reduction in the maximum corporate tax rate. On March 15, 2018, in a set of related issuances, FERC addressed the treatment of federal income tax allowances in interstate pipeline companies’ rates. FERC issued a Revised Policy Statement on Treatment of Income Taxes (“Revised Policy Statement”) reversing its long-standing policy by stating that it will no longer permit master limited partnerships to include an income tax allowance in their cost-of-service. FERC issued the Revised Policy Statement in response to a remand from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit in United Airlines v. FERC, in which the court determined that FERC had not justified its conclusion that a pipeline organized as a master limited partnership would not “double recover” its income taxes under the then current policy by both including an income tax allowance in its cost-of-service and earning a return on equity calculated using the discounted cash flow methodology. Requests for rehearing and clarification of the Revised Policy Statement have been filed by various industry participants.  FERC also issued a Notice of Inquiry (“NOI”) requesting comments on the effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 on FERC jurisdictional rates. The NOI requests comments by May 21, 2018 on whether and how FERC should address changes relating to accumulated deferred income taxes and bonus depreciation. Actions FERC will take, if any, following receipt of responses to the NOI and any potential impacts from final rules or policy statements issued following the NOI on the rates Boardwalk Pipeline can charge for transportation and storage services are uncertain at this time, but such actions could materially impact the maximum cost-based transportation and storage rates it is permitted to charge its customers.  Also included in the March 15, 2018 issuances is a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“NOPR”) proposing rules for implementation of the Revised Policy Statement and the corporate income tax rate reduction with respect to interstate natural gas pipeline rates. The NOPR proposes a new rule that will, if it becomes final, require all FERC-regulated natural gas pipelines to make a one-time informational filing reflecting the impacts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 and the Revised Policy Statement on each individual pipeline’s cost-of-service. The NOPR proposes a procedure that would permit customers to protest or comment on each pipeline’s informational filing. This proposed procedure    46    Table of Contents  may encourage the FERC or one or more of Boardwalk Pipeline’s customers to challenge a pipeline’s informational filings which could lead to challenges to the maximum applicable rates pursuant to Section 5 of the Natural Gas Act (“NGA”).  The NOPR proposes that each FERC-regulated natural gas pipeline will select one of four options: file a limited NGA Section 4 filing reducing its rates only as required related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 and the Revised Policy Statement, commit to filing a general NGA Section 4 rate case in the near future, file a statement explaining why an adjustment to rates is not needed, or take no other action. Boardwalk Pipeline has filed comments in this proceeding. Once the comment period is complete, the FERC is expected to issue a final rule.  Even without action on the NOPR or NOI, the FERC and/or Boardwalk Pipeline’s customers may challenge the maximum applicable rates that any of Boardwalk Pipeline’s regulated pipelines are allowed to charge in accordance with Section 5 of the NGA. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 and the Revised Policy Statement may increase the likelihood of such a challenge due to the resulting treatment of the allowance for income taxes in the determination of maximum applicable rates. If such a challenge is successful for any of its pipelines, the revenues associated with transportation and storage services the pipeline provides pursuant to cost-of-service rates could materially decrease in the future, which would adversely affect the revenues on that pipeline going forward.  On April 18, 2018, the FERC announced it will review its 1999 Policy Statement on Certification of New Interstate Natural Gas Pipeline Facilities that has been used in the determination of whether to grant certificates of public convenience and necessity for new pipeline projects. In its Notice of Inquiry, the FERC seeks comments from the industry on whether, and if so how, the FERC should revise its approach under its currently effective Policy Statement on the certification of new natural gas facilities. Boardwalk Pipeline does not expect that any change in this policy would affect it in a materially different manner than any other interstate natural gas pipeline company operating in the U.S.  Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.