Item 1A. Risk Factors.  Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 includes a detailed discussion of certain risk factors facing the company. The information presented below describes a restatement of one such risk factor and should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors included under Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.  Risks Related to Us and Our Subsidiary, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc.  Diamond Offshore can provide no assurance that its drilling contracts will not be terminated early or that its current backlog of contract drilling revenue will be ultimately realized.  Diamond Offshore’s customers may terminate their drilling contracts under certain circumstances, such as the destruction or loss of a drilling rig or suspension of drilling operations for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment, excessive downtime for repairs, failure to meet minimum performance criteria (including customer acceptance testing) or, in some cases, due to other events beyond the control of either party.  In addition, some of Diamond Offshore’s drilling contracts permit the customer to terminate the contract after specified notice periods, often by tendering contractually specified termination amounts, which may not fully compensate Diamond Offshore for the loss of the contract. In some cases, Diamond Offshore’s drilling contracts may permit the customer to terminate the contract without cause, upon little or no notice or without making an early termination payment to it. During depressed market conditions, such as those currently in effect, certain customers have utilized such contract clauses to seek to renegotiate or terminate a drilling contract or claim that Diamond Offshore has breached provisions of its drilling contracts in order to avoid their obligations to Diamond Offshore under circumstances where Diamond Offshore believes it is in compliance with the contracts. Additionally, because of depressed commodity prices, restricted credit markets, economic downturns, changes in priorities or strategy or other factors beyond Diamond Offshore’s control, a customer may no longer want or need a rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower dayrate. For these reasons, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of Diamond Offshore’s existing drilling contracts, terminate their contracts without justification or repudiate or otherwise fail to perform their obligations under the contracts. As a result of such contract renegotiations or terminations, Diamond Offshore’s contract backlog may be adversely impacted, it might not recover any compensation (or any recovery it obtains may not fully compensate it for the loss of the contract) and it may be required to idle one or more rigs for an extended period of time.  Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.