Item 1A. Risk Factors For a discussion of our potential risks and uncertainties, see the information under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014. Aside from that described below, there have been no significant changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in our Annual Report. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock Although we are no longer a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules, we are relying on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements during a one year transition period. Our founder and our sponsors who are party to a shareholders agreement no longer own a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are no longer a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, corporate governance standards. Pursuant to phase-in periods stipulated by the NYSE Rules, we are required to be in compliance with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements by November 10, 2015, or one year following the date of our loss of “controlled company” status. These requirements include that we have (1) a board that is composed of a majority of “independent directors” as defined under the rules of the NYSE and (2) compensation and nominating and governance committees composed entirely of independent directors. 29  We have been utilizing, and intend to continue to utilize, the one-year transition period described above to achieve full compliance with these NYSE requirements. As a result, at this time, we do not have a majority of independent directors, and our compensation and nominating and governance committees do not consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you do not, and during this transition period you will not, have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. In addition, if we are unable to comply with the heightened corporate governance requirements prior to the prescribed NYSE deadlines, we may incur penalties or our shares could be delisted.  Provisions of our corporate governance documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult and may prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management, even if beneficial to our shareholders.  Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove members of our Board. Because our Board is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn frustrate or prevent any attempt to replace or remove current members of our management team. Among others, these provisions include (i) our ability to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval, (ii) the requirement that our shareholders may not act without a meeting, (iii) requirements for advance notification of shareholder nominations and proposals contained in our bylaws, (iv) the absence of cumulative voting for our directors, (v) requirements for shareholder approval of certain business combinations and (vi) the limitations on director nominations. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition.  As of June 30, 2015, we had $2.5 billion of total indebtedness, excluding $534.7 million of additional available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and thus make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness. If our cash flow is not sufficient to service our debt and adequately fund our business, we may be required to seek further additional financing or refinancing or dispose of assets. We may not be able to implement any of these alternatives on satisfactory terms or at all. Our substantial indebtedness could also:      ·  increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions;      ·  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, investments, acquisitions, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes;      ·  limit our ability to make required payments under our existing contractual commitments, including our indebtedness;      ·  limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;      ·  place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;      ·  cause us to incur substantial fees from time to time in connection with debt amendments or refinancings;      ·  increase our exposure to rising interest rates because a portion of our borrowings is at variable interest rates; and      ·  limit our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow on terms that are satisfactory to us.     Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities,