Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur material risk factors are disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. There have been no material changes from the risk factors discussed in Part 1, Item 1A, "Risk Factors", of our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K, except as follows:Our long-term success depends on intellectual property protection; if our intellectual property rights are invalidated, circumvented, or weakened, our business will be adversely affected. Our long-term success depends on our ability to continually discover, develop, and commercialize innovative new pharmaceutical products. Without strong intellectual property protection, we would be unable to generate the returns necessary to support the enormous investments in research and development and capital as well as other expenditures required to bring new drugs to the market. Intellectual property protection varies throughout the world and is subject to change over time. In the U.S., the Hatch-Waxman Act provides generic companies powerful incentives to seek to invalidate our human pharmaceutical patents; as a result, we expect that our U.S. patents on major pharmaceutical products will be routinely challenged in litigation and administrative proceedings, and may not be upheld. In addition, a new inter partes review process allows competitors to request review of issued patents by the United States Patent and Trademark Office without the protections of the Hatch-Waxman Act. As a result, our patents may be invalided via this review process and, although such a decision can be appealed to the courts, in certain circumstances a loss could result in a competitor entering the market prior to an appeal decision, and a win provides no precedential value - the same patent can still be challenged by other competitors. We face many generic manufacturer challenges to our patents outside the U.S. as well. The entry of generic competitors typically results in rapid and severe declines in sales. In addition, competitors or other third parties may claim that our activities infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held by them. If successful, such claims could result in our being unable to market a product in a particular territory or being required to pay damages for past infringement or royalties on future sales. See "Business—Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights" and "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 15, Contingencies," of our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K for more details.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds