Item 1A. RISK FACTORS.    Any of the factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results, or our credit ratings, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company, or risks that the Company currently considers immaterial, may also impair the Company’s operations.    Litigation—PLAVIX*    The Company cannot predict the outcome of the PLAVIX* litigation in the U.S., which is scheduled to go to trial in June 2006. Although the plaintiffs intend to vigorously pursue enforcement of their patent rights in PLAVIX*, it is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of this litigation, or, if the Company were not to prevail in the litigation, or, if Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. (Apotex), which now has final approval of its sNDA in the U.S. were to enter the market with a generic product at risk, the timing of potential generic competition for PLAVIX*. However, loss of market exclusivity for PLAVIX* and the subsequent development of generic competition and/or a decision by Apotex to launch generic clopidogrel at risk, would be material to the Company’s sales of PLAVIX* and results of operations and cash flows, and could be material to its financial condition and liquidity.    The Company has recorded deferred tax assets related to U.S. foreign tax credit and research tax credit carryforwards, which expire in varying amounts beginning in 2012. Realization of the foreign tax credit and research tax credit carryforwards is dependent on generating sufficient taxable income prior to their expiration. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will be realized. The amount of foreign tax credit and research tax credit carryforwards considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if the outcome of the PLAVIX* litigation in the U.S. is unfavorable, and/or if the timing of successful generic competition for PLAVIX* were to be accelerated. If such events occur, the Company may need to record significant additional valuation allowances against these deferred tax assets. For additional information on PLAVIX* litigation see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 20. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”    Competition    Competition from manufacturers of generic versions of our products is a major challenge as our products mature and patents expire on products. Generic companies are also increasingly seeking to challenge patents. Other competitive factors the Company faces include (i) new products developed by competitors that have lower prices or superior performance features or that are otherwise competitive with our current products; (ii) technological advances and patents attained by competitors; (iii) results of clinical studies related to our products or a competitor’s products; (iv) problems with licensors, suppliers and distributors; and (v) business combinations among our competitors or major customers.    Manufacturing    The Company may experience difficulties and delays inherent in product development, manufacturing and sale, such as (i) products that may appear promising in development but fail to ever reach market or to be approved for additional indications for any number of reasons, including efficacy or safety concerns, the delay or denial of necessary regulatory approvals and the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture; (ii) failure of one or more of the Company’s products to achieve or maintain commercial viability; (iii) seizure or recalls of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (iv) the failure to obtain, the imposition of limitations on the use of, or loss of patent and other intellectual property rights; (v) failure of the Company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with Current Good Manufacturing Practices and other application regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; and (vi) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, such as biologics, or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply.    Other Litigation    The Company has continuing obligations under the Deferred Prosecution Agreement and United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Consent Order relating to wholesaler inventory and various accounting matters, pursuant to which the Company agreed to implement certain remedial measures, including all recommendations made by the Independent Monitor under with the Deferred Prosecution Agreement, undertake corporate reforms, and include additional disclosure in its periodic reports filed with the SEC and annual report to shareholders.    The Company may experience legal difficulties, including lawsuits, claims, proceedings and government investigations, any of which can preclude or delay commercialization of products or adversely affect operations, profitability, liquidity or financial condition, including (i) intellectual property disputes; (ii) sales and marketing practices in the U.S. and internationally; (iii) adverse decisions in litigation, including product liability and commercial cases; (iv) the Company’s determination to self-insure for product liabilities effective July 1, 2004; (v) recalls or withdrawals of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (vi) the failure to fulfill obligations under supply contracts with the government and other customers which may result in liability; (vii) product pricing and promotion matters; (viii) claims asserting violations of securities, antitrust, federal and state pricing and other laws; (ix) environmental, health and safety matters; and (x) tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that there will not be an increase in scope of these matters or that any future lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations will not be material.    Regulation     The Company could become subject to new government laws and regulations, such as (i) health care reform initiatives in the United States at the state and federal level and in other countries; (ii) changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may cause delays in approving, or preventing the approval of, new products; (iii) tax changes such as the phasing out of tax benefits heretofore available in the United States and certain foreign countries; (iv) new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing within or across jurisdictions; and (v) changes in intellectual property law.    Pricing Pressures    Pharmaceutical products are subject to increasing price pressures and other restrictions in the United States and worldwide, including (i) rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, (ii) judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, including the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, and (iii) the potential impact of importation restrictions, legislative or otherwise, pharmaceutical reimbursement, Medicare Part D Formularies, and product pricing in general.    Reliance on Third Parties    The Company relies on vendors, partners and other third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations in relation to their arrangements with the Company.    Economic Factors    The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates and fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates and other economic factors over which the Company has no control.    Execution of the Company’s Strategy    The Company may not be able to fully execute the strategic transformation of our business to attain a new period of sustainable revenue and earnings growth. The Company continues to invest in our growth drivers and pipeline as part of our focus on addressing areas of significant unmet medical needs. Failure to realize additional cost savings in 2007 and 2008 or to successfully transition the product portfolio, however, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations.    Changes in the Company’s structure, operations, revenues, costs, staffing or efficiency resulting from acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, alliances, restructurings or other strategic initiatives, could result in greater than expected costs and other difficulties, including the need for regulatory approvals, as appropriate.    Spending    Changes to advertising and promotional spending and other categories of spending may affect sales.    Information Technology    The Company is increasingly dependent on information technology systems and any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems could negatively impact operations.    Although the Company believes that it has been prudent in its plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made. The Company undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.    30    Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.