Item 1A. RISK FACTORS.  Any of the factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results, or our credit ratings, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company, or risks that the Company currently considers immaterial, may also impair the Company’s operations.  The patent infringement lawsuit with Apotex involving PLAVIX* is ongoing, and there is a risk of generic competition from Apotex and from other generic pharmaceutical companies.   The Company’s largest product ranked by net sales is PLAVIX* (clopidogrel bisulfate) with net sales in the United States (U.S.) of $2.7 billion in 2006, $3.2 billion for 2005 and $2.8 billion in 2004. The composition of matter patent for PLAVIX*, which expires in 2011, is currently the subject of patent litigation in the U.S. with Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. (Apotex) and other generic companies as well as in other less significant jurisdictions.  On August 8, 2006, Apotex launched a generic clopidogrel bisulfate product that competes with PLAVIX*. On August 31, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (the Court) in the patent litigation with Apotex granted a motion by the Company and its product partner, Sanofi-Aventis (Sanofi), to enjoin further sales of Apotex’s generic clopidogrel bisulfate product, but did not order Apotex to recall product from its customers. The Court’s grant of a preliminary injunction has been affirmed on appeal. The trial in the underlying patent litigation ended on February 15, 2007 and the Court is expected to rule following post-trial briefing.  The at-risk launch of generic clopidogrel bisulfate had a significant adverse effect on net sales of PLAVIX* in 2006, which the Company estimates to be in the range of $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion. In particular, the launch had a significant adverse effect on net sales in the third quarter, which the Company estimates to be in the range of $525 million to $600 million, as well as in the fourth quarter of 2006, which the Company estimates to be in the range of $700 million to $750 million. In the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2006, U.S. net sales for PLAVIX* were $850 million, $988 million, $474 million and $343 million, respectively. Estimated total U.S. prescription demand for clopidogrel bisulfate (branded and generic) increased by 14% in 2006 compared to 2005, while estimated total U.S. prescription demand for branded PLAVIX* decreased by 18% in the same period. The Company expects generic clopidogrel bisulfate that was sold into distribution channels following the Apotex at-risk launch in August 2006 will have a residual impact on PLAVIX* net sales and the Company’s overall financial results into 2007. The full impact of Apotex’s launch of its generic clopidogrel bisulfate product on the Company cannot be reasonably estimated at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the amount of generic product sold by Apotex; whether the Company and Sanofi (the Companies) prevail in the underlying patent litigation; even if the Companies prevail in the pending patent case, the extent to which the launch by Apotex will permanently adversely impact the pricing and prescription demand for PLAVIX*, the amount of damages that would be sought and/or recovered by the Companies, and Apotex’s ability to pay such damages. Loss of market exclusivity of PLAVIX* and/or sustained generic competition would be material to the Company’s sales of PLAVIX*, results of operations and cash flows, and could be material to the Company’s financial condition and liquidity.  The Company’s U.S. territory partnership under its alliance with Sanofi is also a plaintiff in three additional pending patent infringement lawsuits against Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Inc. and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, LTD (Dr. Reddy’s), Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva) and Cobalt Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Cobalt), all related to the U.S. Patent No. 4,847,265. A trial date for the action against Dr. Reddy’s has not been set. The patent infringement actions against Teva and Cobalt have been stayed pending resolution of the Apotex litigation, and the parties to those actions have agreed to be bound by the outcome of the litigation against Apotex, although Teva and Cobalt can appeal the outcome of the litigation. Each of Dr. Reddy’s and Teva have filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and all exclusivity periods and statutory stay periods under the Hatch-Waxman Act have expired, with the exception of the 30-month stay that applies to Teva, which expires on February 27, 2007. Accordingly, final approval by the FDA would provide each company authorization to distribute a generic clopidogrel bisulfate product in the U.S., subject to various legal remedies for which the Companies may apply including injunctive relief and damages.  The Company continues to believe that the PLAVIX* patents are valid and infringed, and with Sanofi, is vigorously pursuing enforcement of their patent rights of PLAVIX*. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the ultimate outcome of the ongoing patent litigation with Apotex, or of the other PLAVIX* patent litigations, or the timing of any renewed generic competition for PLAVIX* from Apotex or additional generic competition for PLAVIX* from other third-party generic pharmaceutical companies. However, if Apotex were to prevail at trial, the Company would expect to face renewed generic competition for PLAVIX* from Apotex promptly thereafter.  As previously disclosed, prior to the generic launch by Apotex, the Companies had entered into a proposed settlement with Apotex of the pending PLAVIX* patent litigation, which failed to receive the required antitrust clearances. The Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice is conducting a criminal investigation regarding the proposed settlement of the PLAVIX* patent     31     litigation with Apotex. The Company is cooperating fully with the investigation. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of the investigation or its impact on the Company. It also is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the impact, if any, of the investigation on the Company’s compliance with the Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey.  The Company has recorded deferred tax assets related to U.S. foreign tax credit and research tax credit carryforwards, which expire in varying amounts beginning in 2012. Realization of the foreign tax credit and research tax credit carryforwards is dependent on generating sufficient domestic taxable income prior to their expiration. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will be realized. The amount of foreign tax credit and research tax credit carryforwards considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if PLAVIX* is subject to either renewed or additional generic competition. If such events occur, the Company may need to record significant valuation allowances against these U.S. Federal deferred tax assets.  Additional information about the pending PLAVIX* patent litigation and related legal matters is included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Executive Summary—PLAVIX*,” “—OUTLOOK” and “—SEC Consent Order and Deferred Prosecution Agreement” and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”  The Company faces competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers, including from lower-priced generic products.  Competition from manufacturers of competing products, including lower-priced generic versions of the Company’s products is a major challenge, both within the U.S. and internationally. Such competition may include (i) new products developed by competitors that have lower prices or superior performance features or that are otherwise competitive with the Company’s current products; (ii) technological advances and patents attained by competitors; (iii) results of clinical studies related to the Company’s products or a competitor’s products; (iv) problems with licensors, suppliers and distributors; and (v) business combinations among the Company’s competitors and major customers. Manufacturers of generic products are also increasingly seeking to challenge patents before they expire, and may in some cases launch a generic product before the expiration of the applicable patent(s) and/or before the final resolution of related patent litigation.  The Company may experience difficulties and delays in the manufacturing and sale of its products.  The Company may experience difficulties and delays inherent in manufacturing and sale, such as (i) seizure or recalls of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (ii) the failure to obtain, the imposition of limitations on the use of, or loss of patent and other intellectual property rights; (iii) failure of the Company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with Current Good Manufacturing Practices and other application regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (iv) construction delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for the Company’s biologics products; and (v) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, such as biologics, or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply.  The Company may experience difficulties or delays in the development and commercialization of new products.  The Company may experience difficulties and delays in the development and commercialization of new products, including the inherent risks and uncertainties associated with product development, such as (i) compounds or products that may appear promising in development but fail to reach market within the expected or optimal timeframe, or fail ever to reach market, or to be approved for additional indications for any number of reasons, including efficacy or safety concerns, the delay or denial of necessary regulatory approvals and the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture; (ii) failure to enter into or successfully implement optimal alliances where appropriate for the discovery and/or commercialization of products, or otherwise to maintain a consistent scope and variety of promising late-stage products; (iii) failure of one or more of the Company’s products to achieve or maintain commercial viability.  There are legal matters in which adverse outcomes could negatively affect the Company’s business.  The Company has continuing obligations under the Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA) and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Consent Order relating to wholesaler inventory and various accounting matters, pursuant to which the Company agreed to implement certain remedial measures, including all recommendations made by the Monitor under the DPA, undertake corporate reforms, and include additional disclosure in its periodic reports filed with the SEC and annual report to shareholders.  The Company is currently involved in various lawsuits, claims, proceedings and government investigations, any of which can preclude or delay commercialization of products or adversely affect operations, profitability, liquidity or financial condition, including (i) intellectual property disputes; (ii) sales and marketing practices in the U.S. and internationally; (iii) adverse decisions in litigation,     32     including product liability and commercial cases; (iv) recalls or withdrawals of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (v) the failure to fulfill obligations under supply contracts with the government and other customers which may result in liability; (vi) product pricing and promotion matters; (vii) lawsuits and claims asserting violations of securities, antitrust, Federal and state pricing and other laws; (viii) environmental, health and safety matters; (ix) the failure to comply with anti-bribery laws and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; and (x) tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that there will not be an increase in scope of these matters or there will not be additional lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations in the future; nor is there any assurance that these matters will not have a material adverse impact on the Company.  U.S and foreign regulations may negatively affect the Company’s sales and profit margins.  The Company could become subject to new government laws and regulations, such as (i) health care reform initiatives in the U.S. at the state and Federal level and in other countries; (ii) changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may cause delays in approving, or preventing the approval of, new products; (iii) tax changes such as the phasing out of tax benefits heretofore available in the U.S. and certain foreign countries; (iv) new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing within or across jurisdictions; (v) changes in intellectual property law; and (vi) other matters such as compulsory licenses that could alter the protections afforded one or more of its products.  The Company faces increased pricing pressure in the U.S. and abroad from managed care organizations, institutional purchasers, and government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the Company’s sales and profit margins.  Pharmaceutical products are subject to increasing price pressures and other restrictions in the U.S. and worldwide, including (i) rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, (ii) judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, including the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, (iii) the potential impact of importation restrictions, legislative and/or regulatory changes, pharmaceutical reimbursement, Medicare Part D Formularies and product pricing in general, and (iv) other developments in technology and/or industry practices that could directly or indirectly impact the reimbursement policies and practices of third-party payers.  The Company relies on third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations.  The Company relies on vendors, partners, including alliances with other pharmaceutical companies for the development and commercialization of products, and other third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations in relation to their arrangements with the Company. The failure of these parties to meet their obligations, and/or the development of significant disagreements or other factors that materially disrupt the ongoing commercial relationship and prevent optimal alignment between the partners and their activities, could have a material adverse impact on the Company.  The Company may be adversely impacted by economic factors beyond its control.  The Company has significant operations outside of the U.S. Revenue from operations outside of the U.S. accounted for 46% of the Company’s revenues in 2006. As such, the Company is exposed to changes in fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates. For more information on the Company’s foreign currency exchange exposure, see “Item 7A. Quantitative And Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” The Company also has significant borrowings which are exposed to changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2006, the Company has short-term borrowings and long-term debt of $7.4 billion. For more information on the Company’s interest rate exposure, see “Item 7A. Quantitative And Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” The Company is also exposed to other economic factors over which the Company has no control.  Failure to execute the Company’s business strategy could adversely impact its growth and profitability.  The Company may not be able to fully execute the strategic transformation of its business to attain a new period of sustainable revenue and earnings growth. The Company continues to invest in its growth drivers and pipeline as part of a focus on addressing areas of significant unmet medical need. Failure to realize additional cost savings in 2007 and 2008, to achieve or maintain a competitive cost base, or to successfully transition the product portfolio, however, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. In addition, the Company’s failure to hire and retain personnel with the right expertise and experience in operations that are critical to its business functions could adversely impact the execution of its business strategy. Changes in the Company’s structure, operations, revenues, costs, or efficiency resulting from acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, alliances, restructurings or other strategic initiatives, could result in greater than expected costs and other difficulties, including the need for regulatory approvals, as appropriate.    33    The Company is increasingly dependent on its information technology.  The Company is increasingly dependent on information technology systems and any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems could negatively impact operations.  Although the Company believes that it has been prudent in its plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made. The Company undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.      Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.