Item 1A. RISK FACTORS.  Any of the factors described below could significantly and negatively affect the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition, operating results, or credit ratings, which could cause the trading price of the Company’s common stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company, or risks that the Company currently considers immaterial, may also impair the Company’s operations.  The Company faces competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers, including from lower-priced generic products, and it is possible that the Company may lose market exclusivity of a product earlier than expected.  Competition from manufacturers of competing products, including lower-priced generic versions of the Company’s products is a major challenge, both within the United States (U.S.) and internationally. Such competition may include (i) new products developed by competitors that have lower prices or superior performance features or that are otherwise competitive with the Company’s current products; (ii) technological advances and patents attained by competitors; (iii) results of clinical studies related to the Company’s products or a competitor’s products; (iv) problems with licensors, suppliers and distributors; and (v) business combinations among the Company’s competitors and major customers.  In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. In the U.S. and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there can often be very substantial and rapid declines in the product’s sales. The rate of this decline varies by country and by therapeutic category.  Market exclusivity for the Company’s products is based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. The scope of the Company’s patent rights may vary from country to country. In some countries, including in certain European Union member states, basic patent protection for the Company’s products may not exist because historically certain countries did not offer the right to obtain certain types of patents and/or the Company (or its licensors) did not file in those markets. Absent relevant patent protection for a product, once the data exclusivity period expires, generic versions of the product can be approved and marketed. In addition, prior to the expiration of data exclusivity, a competitor could seek regulatory approval by submitting its own clinical trial data to obtain marketing approval. Manufacturers of generic products are also increasingly seeking to challenge patents before they expire, and may in some cases launch a generic product before the expiration of the applicable patent(s) and/or before the final resolution of patent litigation. The length of market exclusivity for any of the Company’s products is impossible to predict with certainty and there can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that appears in the estimates disclosed in this Form 10-K.  For a discussion of how generic versions of a product can impact that product’s sales, see “Item 1. Business—Competition—Generic Competition” above. For more information about market exclusivity, see “Item 1. Business—Products” and “Item 1. Business—Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity” above.  The patent infringement lawsuit with Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. (Apotex) involving PLAVIX* is ongoing, and there is a risk of generic competition from Apotex and from other generic pharmaceutical companies.  Although, as previously disclosed, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (District court) issued an opinion and order upholding the validity and enforceability of the U.S. Patent No. 4,847,265 relating to PLAVIX*, ruled that Apotex’s generic clopidogrel bisulfate product infringed the patent and enjoined Apotex from engaging in any activity that infringes that patent, the PLAVIX* patent infringement lawsuit is still ongoing and there is a risk that the Company could face generic competition from Apotex and from other generic pharmaceutical companies. Apotex has filed a notice of appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. If Apotex were to prevail in its appeal of the District court’s decision, the Company could face renewed generic competition for PLAVIX* from Apotex promptly thereafter. Loss of market exclusivity for PLAVIX* and/or sustained generic competition would be material to the Company’s results of operations and cash flows and could be material to its financial condition and liquidity. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcomes of the appeal by Apotex of the District court’s decision, or the other PLAVIX* patent litigations or the timing of any renewed generic competition for PLAVIX* from Apotex or additional generic competition for PLAVIX* from other third-party generic pharmaceutical companies.  The Company has recorded deferred tax assets related to the U.S. foreign tax credit, research tax credit and charitable contribution carryforwards. The charitable contribution carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2009, while the foreign tax credit and research tax credit carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2012. Realization of the foreign tax credit, research tax credit and charitable contribution carryforwards is dependent on generating sufficient domestic taxable income prior to their expiration. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will be realized. The amount of foreign tax credit, research tax credit and charitable contribution carryforwards considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if PLAVIX* is subject to either renewed or additional generic competition. If such events occur, the Company may need to record additional valuation allowances against these U.S. federal deferred tax assets. For a discussion of PLAVIX* related matters, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 22. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”  The Company may be adversely impacted by economic factors beyond its control and may incur additional impairment charges to its investment portfolio.  As of December 31, 2007, the Company had $811 million of principal invested in auction rate securities (ARS), representing interests in collateralized debt obligations supported by pools of residential and commercial mortgages or credit cards, insurance securitizations and other structured credits, including corporate bonds. Some of the underlying collateral for the ARS held by the Company consists of sub-prime mortgages. The estimated market value of the Company’s ARS holdings at December 31, 2007 was $419 million, which reflects a $392 million adjustment to the principal value of $811 million. Although the ARS continue to pay interest according to their stated terms, based on valuation models and an analysis of other-than-temporary impairment factors, the Company has recorded an impairment charge of $275 million in the fourth quarter, reflecting the portion of ARS holdings that the Company has concluded have an other-than-temporary decline in value. In addition, the Company recorded an unrealized pre-tax loss of $142 million in other comprehensive income as a reduction in shareholders’ equity, reflecting $117 million of adjustments to ARS holdings and $25 million of other marketable securities that the Company has concluded have a temporary decline in value.  The credit and capital markets have continued to deteriorate in 2008. If uncertainties in these markets continue, these markets deteriorate further or the Company experiences any additional ratings downgrades on any investments in its portfolio (including on ARS), the Company may incur additional impairments to its investment portfolio, which could negatively affect the Company’s financial condition, cash flow and reported earnings.    30    Table of Contents The Company also has significant operations outside of the U.S. Revenue from operations outside of the U.S. accounted for 44% of the Company’s revenues in 2007. As such, the Company is exposed to changes in fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates. For more information on the Company’s foreign currency exchange exposure, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” The Company also has significant borrowings which are exposed to changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2007, the Company had short-term borrowings and long-term debt of $6.3 billion. For more information on the Company’s interest rate exposure, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” The Company is also exposed to other economic factors over which the Company has no control.  The Company may experience difficulties and delays in the manufacturing and sale of its products.  The Company may experience difficulties and delays inherent in manufacturing and sale, such as (i) seizure or recalls of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (ii) the failure to obtain, the imposition of limitations on the use of, or loss of patent and other intellectual property rights; (iii) failure of the Company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with Current Good Manufacturing Practices and other application regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (iv) construction delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for the Company’s biologics products; and (v) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, such as biologics, or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply.  The Company may experience difficulties or delays in the development and commercialization of new products.  The Company may experience difficulties and delays in the development and commercialization of new products, including the inherent risks and uncertainties associated with product development, such as (i) compounds or products that may appear promising in development but fail to reach market within the expected or optimal timeframe, or fail ever to reach market, or to be approved for additional indications for any number of reasons, including efficacy or safety concerns, the delay or denial of necessary regulatory approvals and the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture; (ii) failure to enter into or successfully implement optimal alliances where appropriate for the discovery and/or commercialization of products, or otherwise to maintain a consistent scope and variety of promising late-stage products; (iii) failure of one or more of the Company’s products to achieve or maintain commercial viability.  There are legal matters in which adverse outcomes could negatively affect the Company’s business.  The Company is currently involved in various lawsuits, claims, proceedings and government investigations, any of which can preclude or delay commercialization of products or adversely affect operations, profitability, liquidity or financial condition, including (i) intellectual property disputes; (ii) sales and marketing practices in the U.S. and internationally; (iii) adverse decisions in litigation, including product liability and commercial cases; (iv) recalls or withdrawals of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (v) the failure to fulfill obligations under supply contracts with the government and other customers which may result in liability; (vi) product pricing and promotion matters; (vii) lawsuits and claims asserting violations of securities, antitrust, federal and state pricing and other laws; (viii) environmental, health and safety matters; and (ix) tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that there will not be an increase in scope of these matters or there will not be additional lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations in the future; nor is there any assurance that these matters will not have a material adverse impact on the Company.  U.S. and foreign regulations may negatively affect the Company’s sales and profit margins.  The Company could become subject to new government laws and regulations, such as (i) health care reform initiatives in the U.S. at the state and Federal level and in other countries; (ii) changes in the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and foreign regulatory approval processes that may cause delays in approving, or preventing the approval of, new products; (iii) tax changes such as the phasing out of tax benefits heretofore available in the U.S. and certain foreign countries; (iv) new laws, regulations and judicial or other governmental decisions affecting pricing or marketing within or across jurisdictions; (v) changes in intellectual property law; and (vi) other matters such as compulsory licenses that could alter the protections afforded one or more of its products.  The Company faces increased pricing pressure in the U.S. and abroad from managed care organizations, institutional purchasers, and government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the Company’s sales and profit margins.  Pharmaceutical products are subject to increasing price pressures and other restrictions in the U.S. and worldwide, including (i) rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, (ii) judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, including the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, (iii) the potential impact of importation restrictions, legislative and/or regulatory changes, pharmaceutical reimbursement, Medicare Part D Formularies and product pricing in general, and (iv) other developments in technology and/or industry practices that could directly or indirectly impact the reimbursement policies and practices of third-party payers.    31    Table of Contents The Company relies on third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations.  The Company relies on vendors, partners, including alliances with other pharmaceutical companies for the development and commercialization of products, and other third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations in relation to their arrangements with the Company. The failure of these parties to meet their obligations, and/or the development of significant disagreements or other factors that materially disrupt the ongoing commercial relationship and prevent optimal alignment between the partners and their activities, could have a material adverse impact on the Company.  Failure to execute the Company’s business strategy could adversely impact its growth and profitability.  As part of its strategy, the Company currently is implementing a comprehensive cost reduction program that includes workforce reductions in some areas and the rationalization of some facilities. The Company expects to incur restructuring and other charges in connection with this program in the range of $0.9 billion to $1.1 billion on a pre-tax basis over the next three years, with $292 million of those charges having been incurred in the fourth quarter of 2007 and approximately $500 million in charges expected to be incurred in 2008.  The Company may not be able to fully execute the strategic transformation of its business to attain a new period of sustainable revenue and earnings growth. The Company continues to invest in its key products and pipeline as part of a focus on addressing areas of significant unmet medical need. Failure to realize the expected cost savings in 2008, to achieve and maintain a competitive cost base, or to successfully transition the product portfolio, however, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. In addition, the Company’s failure to hire and retain personnel with the right expertise and experience in operations that are critical to its business functions could adversely impact the execution of its business strategy. Changes in the Company’s structure, operations, revenues, costs, or efficiency resulting from acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, alliances, restructurings or other strategic initiatives, could result in greater than expected costs and other difficulties, including the need for regulatory approvals, as appropriate.  The Company is increasingly dependent on its information technology and outsourcing arrangements.  The Company is increasingly dependent on information technology systems and any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems could negatively impact operations. The Company is also increasing its dependence on third-party providers for certain services, including information technology systems. The failure of these service providers to meet their obligations and/or the development of significant disagreements or other factors that materially disrupt the Company’s ongoing relationship with these providers could negatively affect operations.    32    Table of Contents   Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.