Item 1A. RISK FACTORS.  Any of the factors described below could significantly and negatively affect the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition, operating results, or credit ratings, which could cause the trading price of the Company’s common stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company, or risks that the Company currently considers immaterial, may also impair the Company’s operations.  The Company faces intense competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers, including from lower-priced generic products.  Competition from manufacturers of competing products, including lower-priced generic versions of the Company’s products is a major challenge, both within the United States (U.S.) and internationally. Our Pharmaceuticals Segment is confronted by a record level of industry patent expirations and increasingly aggressive generic competition. Such competition may include (i) new products developed by competitors that have lower prices or superior performance features or that are otherwise competitive with the Company’s current products; (ii) technological advances and patents attained by competitors; (iii) results of clinical studies related to the Company’s products or a competitor’s products; and (iv) business combinations among the Company’s competitors and major customers.  The Company depends on key products for most of its net sales, cash flows and earnings.  The Company derives a majority of our revenue from a few key products. In 2008, net sales of PLAVIX* contributed $5.6 billion, representing 27% of total net sales, and net sales of ABILIFY* contributed approximately $2.2 billion, representing approximately 10% of total net sales. Three other products (AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, REYATAZ and the SUSTIVA Franchise) each contributed more than $1.0 billion in net sales. A reduction in sales of these products could significantly negatively impact the Company’s net sales, cash flows and earnings.  It is possible that the Company may lose market exclusivity of a product earlier than expected.  In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. In the U.S. and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there are often very substantial and rapid declines in the product’s sales. The rate of this decline varies by country and by therapeutic category.  Market exclusivity for the Company’s products is based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. The scope of the Company’s patent rights may vary from country to country. In some countries, including in certain European Union member states, basic patent protection for the Company’s products may not exist because historically certain countries did not offer the right to obtain certain types of patents and/or the Company (or its licensors) did not file in those markets. Absent relevant patent protection for a product, once the data exclusivity period expires, generic versions of the product can be approved and marketed, such as generic clopidogrel bisulfate in certain EU markets. In addition, prior to the expiration of data exclusivity, a competitor could seek regulatory approval by submitting its own clinical trial data to obtain marketing approval. Manufacturers of generic products are also increasingly seeking to challenge patents before they expire, and may in some cases launch a generic product before the expiration of the applicable patent(s) and/or before the final resolution of related patent litigation. The length of market exclusivity for any of the Company’s products is impossible to predict with certainty and there can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that appears in the estimates disclosed in this Form 10-K.  Data protection for PLAVIX* has expired in the EU and PLAVIX* faces competition in European markets.  Data protection for PLAVIX* expired on July 15, 2008 in the European Union (EU). In most of the major markets within Europe, the product benefits from national patents, expiring in 2013, which specifically claim the bisulfate form of clopidogrel. In the remainder of EU member states, however, where there is no composition of matter patent covering clopidogrel bisulfate, competitors are seeking regulatory authority to enter those markets with generic clopidogrel bisulfate. In addition, at least one group of competitor companies has received marketing authorization for, and has started to market, an alternate salt form of clopidogrel in Germany. The Company is aware that alternate salt applications have been filed in the EU. At this time, the Company cannot estimate reliably the impact of any such competition on the Company’s financial results.  U.S. and foreign laws and regulations may negatively affect the Company’s sales and profit margins.  The Company could become subject to new government laws and regulations, such as (i) health care reform initiatives in the U.S. at the state and Federal level and in other countries; (ii) changes in the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and foreign     28    Table of Contents  regulatory approval processes that may cause delays in approving, or preventing the approval of, new products; (iii) tax changes such as the phasing out of tax benefits heretofore available in the U.S. and certain foreign countries; (iv) new laws, regulations and judicial or other governmental decisions affecting pricing, reimbursement or marketing within or across jurisdictions; (v) changes in intellectual property law; and (vi) other matters such as compulsory licenses that could alter the protections afforded one or more of its products.  The Company faces increased pricing pressure in the U.S. and abroad from managed care organizations, institutional purchasers, and government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the Company’s sales and profit margins.  Pharmaceutical products are subject to increasing price pressures and other restrictions in the U.S. and worldwide, including (i) rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, (ii) judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, including the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, (iii) the potential impact of importation restrictions, legislative and/or regulatory changes, pharmaceutical reimbursement, Medicare Part D Formularies and product pricing in general, and (iv) other developments in technology and/or industry practices that could directly or indirectly impact the reimbursement policies and practices of third-party payers.  The Company may experience difficulties and delays in the manufacturing and sale of its products.  The Company may experience difficulties and delays inherent in manufacturing and sale, such as (i) seizure or recalls of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (ii) the failure to obtain, the imposition of limitations on the use of, or loss of patent and other intellectual property rights; (iii) supply chain continuity including the failure of the Company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with Current Good Manufacturing Practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (iv) construction delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for the Company’s biologics products; and (v) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, such as biologics, or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply.  The Company may experience difficulties or delays in the development and commercialization of new products.  The Company may experience difficulties and delays in the development and commercialization of new products, including the inherent risks and uncertainties associated with product development, such as (i) compounds or products that may appear promising in development but fail to reach market within the expected or optimal timeframe, or fail ever to reach market, or to be approved for additional indications for any number of reasons, including efficacy or safety concerns, the delay or denial of necessary regulatory approvals and the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture; (ii) failure to enter into or successfully implement optimal alliances where appropriate for the discovery and/or commercialization of products, or otherwise to maintain a consistent scope and variety of promising late-stage products; (iii) failure of one or more of the Company’s products to achieve or maintain commercial viability.  There are legal matters in which adverse outcomes could negatively affect the Company’s business.  The Company is currently involved in various lawsuits, claims, proceedings and government investigations, any of which can preclude or delay commercialization of products or adversely affect operations, profitability, liquidity or financial condition, including (i) intellectual property disputes; (ii) sales and marketing practices in the U.S. and internationally; (iii) adverse decisions in litigation, including product liability and commercial cases; (iv) recalls or withdrawals of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (v) the failure to fulfill obligations under supply contracts with the government and other customers which may result in liability; (vi) product pricing and promotion matters; (vii) lawsuits and claims asserting violations of securities, antitrust, federal and state pricing and other laws; (viii) environmental, health and safety matters; and (ix) tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that there will not be an increase in scope of these matters or there will not be additional lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations in the future; nor is there any assurance that these matters will not have a material adverse impact on the Company.  The Company relies on third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations.  The Company relies on vendors, partners, including alliances with other pharmaceutical companies for the development and commercialization of products, and other third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations in relation to their arrangements with the Company. The failure of these parties to meet their obligations, and/or the development of significant disagreements or other factors that materially disrupt the ongoing commercial relationship and prevent optimal alignment between the partners and their activities, could have a material adverse impact on the Company.    29    Table of Contents Failure to execute the Company’s business strategy could adversely impact its growth and profitability.  As part of its strategy, the Company currently is implementing a comprehensive cost reduction program that includes workforce reductions in some areas and the rationalization of some facilities. The Company expects to incur restructuring and other charges in connection with this program in the aggregate range of $1.3 billion to $1.6 billion on a pre-tax basis until 2012, with $695 million of those charges having been incurred in 2008 and 2007.  The Company may not be able to fully execute the strategic transformation of its business to attain a new period of sustainable revenue and earnings growth. The Company continues to invest in its key products and pipeline as part of a focus on addressing areas of significant unmet medical need. Failure to realize the expected cost savings in 2009, to achieve and maintain a competitive cost base, or to successfully transition the product portfolio, however, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. In addition, the Company’s failure to hire and retain personnel with the right expertise and experience in operations that are critical to its business functions could adversely impact the execution of its business strategy. Changes in the Company’s structure, operations, revenues, costs, or efficiency resulting from acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, alliances, restructurings or other strategic initiatives, could result in greater than expected costs and other difficulties, including the need for regulatory approvals, as appropriate.  The Company is increasingly dependent on its information technology and outsourcing arrangements.  The Company is increasingly dependent on information technology systems and any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems could negatively impact operations. The Company is also increasing its dependence on third-party providers for certain services, including information technology systems, certain financial outsourcing arrangements and certain human resource functions. The failure of these service providers to meet their obligations and/or the development of significant disagreements or other factors that materially disrupt the Company’s ongoing relationship with these providers could negatively affect operations.  Recent adverse changes in U.S., global, or regional economic conditions could have a continuing adverse effect on the profitability of some or all of our businesses.  Recent turmoil in the financial markets has adversely affected economic activity in the United States and other regions of the world in which we do business. Although we believe that based on our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances and expected operating cash flows, the current lack of liquidity in the credit markets will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow, or financial flexibility, continued deterioration of the credit and capital markets could cause additional impairments to our investment portfolio, which could negatively impact our financial condition and reported earnings. The continued decline in economic activity could adversely affect demand for our products, thus reducing our revenue and earnings as well as have an adverse impact on our customers, distributors, alliance partners, suppliers, service providers and counterparties to certain financial instruments such as marketable securities and derivatives. The severe decline in equity markets have resulted in a decline in our pension plan assets which will increase future funding requirements.  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  We have significant operations outside of the U.S. Revenues from operations outside of the U.S. accounted for 42% of the Company’s revenues in 2008. As such, we are exposed to changes in fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates. We also have significant borrowings which are exposed to changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2008, the Company had short-term borrowings and long-term debt of $6.7 billion. The Company is also exposed to other economic factors over which the Company has no control.   The illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of the Company’s products could have a negative impact on our reputation.  Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products, which do not meet the rigorous manufacturing and testing standards that our products undergo. A patient who receives a counterfeit drug may be at risk for a number of dangerous health consequences. Our reputation could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit drugs sold under the name of one of our products.    30    Table of Contents   Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.