Item 1A. RISK FACTORS.  Any of the factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results, or credit ratings, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or risks that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our operations.  We face intense competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers, including both innovative medicines and lower-priced generic products.  Competition from manufacturers of competing products, including lower-priced generic versions of our products is a major challenge, both within the U.S. and internationally. Our business is confronted by a record level of industry patent expirations and increasingly aggressive generic competition. Such competition may include (i) new products developed by competitors that have lower prices or superior performance features or that are otherwise competitive with our current products; (ii) technological advances and patents attained by competitors; (iii) results of clinical studies related to our products or a competitor’s products; (iv) earlier-than-expected competition from generic companies; and (v) business combinations among our competitors and major customers.  We depend on key products for most of our net sales, cash flows and earnings.  We derive a majority of our revenue and earnings from a few key products. In 2009, net sales of PLAVIX* contributed approximately $6.1 billion, representing approximately 33% of total net sales. Net sales of ABILIFY* contributed approximately $2.6 billion, representing approximately 14% of total net sales. Three other products (AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, REYATAZ and the SUSTIVA Franchise) each contributed more than $1.2 billion in net sales. A reduction in sales of one or more of these or other key products could significantly negatively impact our net sales, cash flows and earnings. Our partnership net sales of PLAVIX* in Europe and Asia also contributed substantially to our equity in net income of affiliates, which was $558 million in 2009.  It is possible that we may lose market exclusivity of a product earlier than expected.  In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which it has market exclusivity. In the U.S. and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there are often very substantial and rapid declines in the product’s sales. The rate of this decline varies by country and by therapeutic category.  Market exclusivity for our products is based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. The scope of our patent rights may vary from country to country and may also be dependent on the availability of meaningful legal remedies in that country. The failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use or loss of such rights, could be material to us. In some countries, including in certain EU member states, basic patent protection for our products may not exist because certain countries did not historically offer the right to obtain certain types of patents and/or we (or our licensors) did not file in those markets. Absent relevant patent protection for a product, once the data exclusivity period expires, generic versions of the product can be approved and marketed, such as generic clopidogrel bisulfate in certain EU markets. In addition, prior to the expiration of data exclusivity, a competitor could seek regulatory approval by submitting its own clinical trial data to obtain marketing approval. It is also possible that in the EU, the publication of certain studies in journals prior to obtaining first EU marketing approval may be deemed to begin the data protection period for a product, which could reduce its expected term of exclusivity in the EU.  Manufacturers of generic products are also increasingly seeking to challenge patents before they expire, and may in some cases choose to launch a generic product “at risk” before the expiration of the applicable patent(s) and/or before the final resolution of related patent litigation. The length of market exclusivity for any of our products is impossible to predict with certainty and there can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that appears in the estimates disclosed in this Form 10-K.  Data protection for PLAVIX* has expired in the EU and PLAVIX* faces competition in European markets.  Data protection for PLAVIX* expired on July 15, 2008 in the EU. Generic clopidogrel bisulfate or alternative forms of clopidogrel are present in over half of the markets in the EU, including France, Germany and the UK. By the end of 2009, PLAVIX* has experienced significant market share erosion and price discounts in these markets. We expect generic competition in other EU markets to begin in the first half of 2010. PLAVIX* net sales decreased significantly in 2009 compared to 2008 and are expected to continue to decline from generic clopidogrel competition. As such, our international net sales from PLAVIX* and our equity in net income of affiliates are expected to be significantly lower in 2010 when compared with prior years.  U.S. and foreign laws and regulations may negatively affect our net sales and profit margins.  We could become subject to new government laws and regulations, such as (i) healthcare reform initiatives in the U.S. at the Federal and state level and in other countries; (ii) changes in the U.S. FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may cause delays in approving, or preventing the approval of, new products; (iii) tax changes such as the phasing out of tax benefits heretofore available in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries; (iv) new laws, regulations and judicial or other governmental decisions affecting pricing, reimbursement or marketing within or across jurisdictions; (v) changes in intellectual property law; (vi) changes in tax law; and (vii) other matters such as compulsory licenses that could alter the protections afforded to one or more of our products.    25    Table of Contents Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by pending healthcare reform legislation in the U.S.  There are proposed bills in both the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives to reform healthcare in the United States. The bills include provisions that could increase the Medicaid rebate, expand the Medicaid program, provide additional prescription drug discounts to certain patients under Medicare Part D and/or assess annual fees to pharmaceutical companies, among other things. Congress and the FDA are also actively considering ways to develop a regulatory mechanism that allows for approval of biologic drugs that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on the basis of less extensive data than is the basis for a full BLA. If and when any of these or other healthcare reform bills are passed into law, they could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operation; it is not possible at this time, however, to predict with any certainty what the potential impact of pending U.S. healthcare reform is likely to be.  We face increased pricing pressure in the U.S. and abroad from managed care organizations, institutional purchasers, and government agencies and programs that could negatively affect our net sales and profit margins.  Pharmaceutical products are subject to increasing price pressures and other restrictions in the U.S. and worldwide, including (i) rules and practices of managed care organizations and institutional and governmental purchasers, (ii) judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, including the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, (iii) the potential impact of importation restrictions, legislative and/or regulatory changes, pharmaceutical reimbursement, Medicare Part D Formularies and product pricing in general, (iv) delays in gaining reimbursement and/or reductions in reimbursement amounts in countries with broad coverage of pharmaceutical expenditures (e.g., major European markets, Japan and Canada), and (v) other developments in technology and/or industry practices that could directly or indirectly impact the reimbursement policies and practices of third-party payers.  Changes to the product label for any of our marketed products or results from certain studies released after a product is approved could potentially have a negative impact on sales of that product.  The label for any pharmaceutical product can be changed by the regulatory authorities at any time, including after the product has been on the market for years. These changes are often the result of additional data from post-marketing studies, head-to-head trials, spontaneous reporting of adverse events from patients or healthcare professionals, studies that identify biomarkers (objective characteristics that can indicate a particular response to a product or therapy), or other studies that produce important additional information about a product. The new information added to a product’s labeling can affect the safety (risk) and/or the efficacy (benefit) profile of the product. Sometimes the additional information from these studies identifies a portion of the patient population that may be non-responsive to the medicine. Changes to a label based on such studies may limit the patient population, such as the recent changes to the PLAVIX* and ERBITUX* labels. The studies providing such additional information may be sponsored by us, but they can also be sponsored by our competitors, insurance companies, government institutions, managed care organizations, influential scientists or investigators, or other interested parties. While additional safety and efficacy information from these studies assist us and healthcare providers in identifying the best patient population for each of our products, it can also have a negative impact on sales for any such product to the extent the patient population or product label becomes more limited. Additionally, certain study results, especially from head-to-head trials, could affect a product’s formulary listing, which could also have an adverse effect on sales.  We may experience difficulties and delays in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products.  We may experience difficulties and delays inherent in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products, such as (i) seizure or recalls of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (ii) supply chain continuity including as a result of a natural or manmade disaster at one of our facilities or at a critical supplier or vendor as well as our failure or the failure of any of our vendors or suppliers to comply with Current Good Manufacturing Practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (iii) manufacturing, quality assurance/quality control, supply problems or governmental approval delays due to our consolidation and rationalization of manufacturing facilities and the sale or closure of certain sites; (iv) the failure of a sole source or single source supplier to provide us with necessary raw materials, supplies or finished goods for an extended period of time that could impact continuous supply; (v) the failure of a third-party manufacturer to supply us with product on a timely bases; (vi) construction or regulatory approval delays related to new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for our biologics products; and (vii) other manufacturing or distribution problems including limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, such as biologics, physical limitations or other business interruptions that could impact continuous supply.  We may experience difficulties or delays in the development and commercialization of new products.  We may experience difficulties and delays in the development and commercialization of new products, including the inherent risks and uncertainties associated with product development, such as (i) compounds or products that may appear promising in development but fail to reach market within the expected or optimal timeframe, or fail ever to reach market, or to be approved for product extensions or additional indications for any number of reasons, including efficacy or safety concerns, the delay or denial of necessary regulatory approvals, delays or difficulties with producing products at a commercial scale level or excessive costs to manufacture products; (ii) failure to enter into or successfully implement optimal alliances where appropriate for the discovery and/or commercialization of products; (iii) failure to maintain a consistent scope and variety of promising late-stage products; or (iv) failure of one or more of our    26    Table of Contents  products to achieve or maintain commercial viability. In addition, in the U.S., we have observed a recent trend by the FDA to delay its approval decision on a new product beyond its announced action date, sometimes by as much as six months or longer. Regulatory approval delays are especially common when the product is expected to have Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy to address significant risk/benefit issues. The inability to bring a product to market or a significant delay in the expected approval and related launch date of a new product could potentially have a negative impact on our net sales and earnings and/or result in a significant impairment of in-process research and development or other intangible assets. Finally, a natural or man made disaster or sabotage of research and development labs and a loss of key molecules and intermediaries could negatively impact the product development cycle.  There are legal matters in which adverse outcomes could negatively affect our business.  We are currently involved in various lawsuits, claims, proceedings and government investigations, any of which can preclude or delay commercialization of products or adversely affect operations, profitability, liquidity or financial condition, including (i) intellectual property disputes; (ii) sales and marketing practices in the U.S. and internationally; (iii) adverse decisions in litigation, including product liability and commercial cases; (iv) recalls or withdrawals of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (v) the failure to fulfill obligations under supply contracts with the government and other customers which may result in liability; (vi) product pricing and promotional matters; (vii) lawsuits and claims asserting violations of securities, antitrust, federal and state pricing and other laws; (viii) environmental, health and safety matters; and (ix) tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that there will not be an increase in scope in any or all of these matters or there will not be additional lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations in the future; nor is there any assurance that any or all of these matters will not have a material adverse impact on us.  We rely on third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations.  We rely on suppliers, vendors and partners, including alliances with other pharmaceutical companies for the manufacturing, development and commercialization of products, and other third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations in relation to their arrangements with us. The failure of these parties to meet their obligations, and/or the development of significant disagreements or other factors that materially disrupt the ongoing commercial relationship and prevent optimal alignment between the partners and their activities, could have a material adverse impact on us. In addition, if these parties violate or are alleged to have violated any laws or regulations during the performance of their obligations for us, it is possible that we could suffer financial and reputational harm or other negative outcomes, including possible legal consequences.  Failure to execute our business strategy could adversely impact our growth and profitability.  Over the last few years, we have transformed from a diversified pharmaceutical and related healthcare products company into a biopharmaceutical company with a focus on innovative products in areas of high unmet medical need. There are risks associated with this strategy. We may not be able to consistently replenish our innovative pipeline, through internal research and development or transactions with third parties. The competition among major pharmaceutical companies for acquisition and product licensing opportunities has become more intense, eliminating some opportunities and making others more expensive. We may not be able to locate suitable acquisition targets or licensing partners at reasonable prices or successfully execute such transactions. Additionally, changes in our structure, operations, revenues, costs, or efficiency resulting from major transactions such as acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, alliances, restructurings or other strategic initiatives, may result in greater than expected costs, may take longer than expected to complete or encounter other difficulties, including the need for regulatory approval where appropriate. The inability to expand our product portfolio with new products or maintain a competitive cost basis could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations. In addition, our failure to hire and retain personnel with the right expertise and experience in operations that are critical to our business functions could adversely impact the execution of our business strategy.  We are increasingly dependent on our outsourcing arrangements.  We are increasing our dependence on third-party providers for certain outsourced services, including certain research and development capabilities, certain financial outsourcing arrangements, certain human resource functions, and information technology activities and systems. Many of these third-party providers are located in markets that are subject to political risk, corruption, infrastructure problems and natural disasters in addition to country specific privacy and data security risks given current legal and regulatory environments. The failure of these service providers to meet their obligations, adequately deploy business continuity plans in the event of a crisis and/or the development of significant disagreements, natural or man made disasters or other factors that materially disrupt our ongoing relationship with these providers could negatively affect operations.  We are increasingly dependent on information technology.  We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems and any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems could negatively impact operations. In addition, there is a risk of business interruption or reputational damage given an infiltration of a data center or loss of private information from us or our third-party providers.    27    Table of Contents Adverse changes in U.S., global, or regional economic conditions could have a continuing adverse effect on the profitability of some or all of our businesses.  The global economic downturn has adversely affected commercial activity in the U.S. and other regions of the world in which we do business. We believe that based on our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances and expected operating cash flows, decreased liquidity in the credit markets will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow, or financial flexibility. However, deterioration of the financial markets could cause impairments to our investment portfolio, which could negatively impact our financial condition and reported earnings. A continued decline in economic activity could adversely affect demand for our products, thus reducing our revenues, earnings and cash flow, as well as have pass-through effects on us resulting from any significant financial instability from our customers, distributors, alliance partners, suppliers, critical vendors, service providers and counterparties to certain financial instruments, such as marketable securities and derivatives. The severe decline in equity markets during 2008 resulted in a decline in our pension plan assets which increased funding requirements. Although global capital markets have stabilized and partially recovered during 2009, future pension plan funding requirements continue to be sensitive to global economic conditions.  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  We have significant operations outside of the U.S. Revenues from operations outside of the U.S. accounted for 37% of our revenues in 2009. As such, we are exposed to changes in fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates. We also have significant borrowings which are exposed to changes in interest rates. We are also exposed to other economic factors over which we have no control.  The illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of our products or stolen products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business.  Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products, which do not meet the rigorous manufacturing and testing standards that our products undergo. A patient who receives a counterfeit drug may be at risk for a number of dangerous health consequences. Our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit drugs sold under the name of one of our products. In addition, thefts of inventory at warehouses, plants or while in-transit which are not properly stored and which are sold through unauthorized channels could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation and our business.    28    Table of Contents   Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.