Item 1A. RISK FACTORS.  Any of the factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results, or credit ratings, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or risks that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our operations.  We face intense competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers, including for both innovative medicines and lower-priced generic products.  Competition, including lower-priced generic versions of our products, is a major challenge both within the U.S. and internationally. We are facing patent expirations and increasingly aggressive generic competition. Such competition may include (i) new products developed by competitors that have lower prices, superior performance or safety features, or that are otherwise competitive with our products; (ii) technological advances and patents attained by our competitors; (iii) earlier-than-expected competition from generic companies; (iv) clinical study results related to our products or a competitor’s products; and (v) business combinations among our competitors and major customers. We also could experience limited or no market access due to real or perceived differences in value propositions of our products compared with competing products.  We depend on certain key products for most of our net sales, cash flows and earnings and U.S. market exclusivity for PLAVIX* and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in the U.S. is expected to expire in May 2012 and March 2012, respectively.  We derive a majority of our revenue and earnings from a few key products. In 2011, net sales of PLAVIX* were approximately $7.1 billion, representing approximately 33% of total net sales. Net sales of ABILIFY* were approximately $2.8 billion, representing approximately 13% of total net sales. Three other products (REYATAZ, the SUSTIVA Franchise and BARACLUDE) each were more than $1 billion in net sales. A reduction in net sales of one or more of these or other key products could significantly negatively impact our net sales, cash flows and earnings.  PLAVIX* is our top-selling product. In 2011, U.S. net sales were approximately $6.6 billion. We expect that when PLAVIX* loses U.S. exclusivity in May 2012, there will be a rapid, precipitous and material decline in PLAVIX* net sales and a reduction in net income and operating cash flow. AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, which had 2011 U.S. net sales of $521 million, loses U.S. patent protection in March 2012, after which we expect to experience a precipitous decline in AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* net sales. If we are unable to support and grow our currently marketed products, successfully launch newly approved products, advance our late-stage pipeline and manage our costs effectively, the loss of exclusivity for PLAVIX* and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.  It is possible that we may lose market exclusivity of a product earlier than expected.  In the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which it has market exclusivity. In the U.S. and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there are usually very substantial and rapid declines in the product’s sales. The rate of this decline varies by country and by therapeutic category.  Market exclusivity for our products is based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. The scope of our patent rights may vary from country to country and may also be dependent on the availability of meaningful legal remedies in that country. The failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use or loss of such rights, could be material to us. In some countries, including in certain EU member states, basic patent protection for our products may not exist because certain countries did not historically offer the right to obtain certain types of patents and/or we (or our licensors) did not file in those markets. Absent relevant patent protection for a product, once the data exclusivity period expires, generic versions of the product can be approved and marketed, such as generic clopidogrel bisulfate in certain EU markets. In addition, prior to the expiration of data exclusivity, a competitor could seek regulatory approval by submitting its own clinical trial data to obtain marketing approval.  Manufacturers of generic products are also increasingly seeking to challenge patents before they expire. Key patents covering four of our key products (ABILIFY*, ATRIPLA*, BARACLUDE, and SPRYCEL) are currently the subject of patent litigation. In some cases, generic manufacturers may choose to launch a generic product “at risk” before the expiration of the applicable patent(s) and/or before the final resolution of related patent litigation. The length of market exclusivity for any of our products is difficult to predict with certainty and therefore there can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that appears in the estimates disclosed in this Form 10-K. For example, we unexpectedly lost exclusivity for PLAVIX* in Canada in 2011.  We face increased pricing pressure and other restrictions in the U.S. and abroad from managed care organizations, institutional purchasers, and government agencies and programs that could negatively affect our net sales and profit margins.  Pharmaceutical products continue to be subject to increasing price pressures and other restrictions in the U.S., the EU and other regions around the world, including but not limited to: (i) rules and practices of managed care organizations and institutional and governmental purchasers, (ii) judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and U.S. healthcare reform, including the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, (iii) the potential impact of importation restrictions, legislative and/or regulatory changes, pharmaceutical reimbursement, Medicare    25     Part D Formularies and product pricing in general, (iv) delays in gaining reimbursement and/or reductions in reimbursement amounts in countries with government mandated, cost-containment programs (e.g., major European markets, Japan and Canada), (v) other developments in technology and/or industry practices that could directly or indirectly impact the reimbursement policies and practices of third-party payers, and (vi) limited or no market access due to real or perceived differences in value propositions of our products compared to competing products.  Our business and results of operations have been affected, and will continue to be affected, by U.S. healthcare reform legislation in the U.S.  As described under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Executive Summary—Business Environment”, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (HR 3590) and a reconciliation bill containing a package of changes to the healthcare bill were signed into law during March 2010. These bills included provisions that reduced our net sales and increased costs due to the increased Medicaid rebate, expanded Medicaid program, additional prescription drug discounts to certain patients under Medicare Part D and a non-tax-deductible annual fee to pharmaceutical companies, among other things. We continue to experience significant financial costs and certain other changes to our business from the implementation of the 2010 U.S. healthcare reform law. The annual EPS impact from U.S. healthcare reform increased from $0.10 in 2010 to $0.24 in 2011. The incremental $0.14 impact was associated with the Medicare Part D coverage gap and the annual pharmaceutical company fee. The 2010 U.S. healthcare reform law also created a regulatory mechanism that allows for approval of biologic drugs that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on the basis of less extensive data than is the basis for a full BLA.  U.S. and foreign laws and regulations may negatively affect our net sales and profit margins.  We could become subject to new government laws and regulations, such as (i) additional healthcare reform initiatives in the U.S. at the Federal and state level and in other countries, including additional mandatory discounts; (ii) changes in the U.S. FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may cause delays in approving, or preventing the approval of, new products; (iii) changes in corporate tax regulation, including as part of the proposed U.S. budget deficit reduction package, which could include limiting foreign tax credits, taxing certain tax havens, taxing certain excess income from transferring intellectual property, limiting or disallowing certain U.S. deductions for operating and interest expenses, changing rules for earnings repatriations and eliminating certain tax credits, as well as changing the tax rate or phasing out currently available tax benefits in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries or other changes in tax law; (iv) new laws, regulations and judicial or other governmental decisions affecting pricing, drug reimbursement, receivable repayment, access or marketing within or across jurisdictions; (v) changes in intellectual property law; and (vi) other matters, such as compulsory licenses that could alter the protections afforded to one or more of our products. Any legal or regulatory changes could negatively affect our business, our operating results and the financial condition of our company. Emerging legislation to reduce the U.S. Federal budget deficit, if enacted, will further reduce our operating results.  Changes to the product labeling for any of our marketed products or results from certain studies released after a product is approved could potentially have a negative impact that product’s sales.  The labeling for any pharmaceutical product can be changed by the regulatory authorities at any time, including after the product has been on the market for years. These changes are often the result of additional data from post-marketing studies, head-to-head trials, reporting of adverse events from patients or healthcare professionals, studies that identify biomarkers (objective characteristics that can indicate a particular response to a product or therapy), or other studies that produce important additional information about a product. The new information added to a product’s label can affect the safety (risk) and/or the efficacy (benefit) profile of the product. Sometimes the additional information from these studies identifies a portion of the patient population that may be non-responsive to a medicine. Labeling changes based on such studies may limit the patient population, such as the changes to the labeling for PLAVIX* and ERBITUX* a few years ago. The studies providing such additional information may be sponsored by us, but they can also be sponsored by our competitors, insurance companies, government institutions, managed care organizations, influential scientists, investigators, or other interested parties. While additional safety and efficacy information from these studies assist us and healthcare providers in identifying the best patient population for each of our products, it can also have a negative impact on sales for any such product to the extent that the patient population or product labeling becomes more limited. Additionally, certain study results, especially from head-to-head trials, could affect a product’s formulary listing, which could also adversely affect sales.  We may experience difficulties and delays in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products.  We may experience difficulties and delays inherent in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products, such as (i) seizure or recalls of products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (ii) supply chain continuity including as a result of a natural or man-made disaster at one of our facilities or at a critical supplier or vendor as well as our failure or the failure of any of our vendors or suppliers to comply with Current Good Manufacturing Practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (iii) manufacturing, quality assurance/quality control, supply problems or governmental approval delays due to our consolidation and rationalization of manufacturing facilities and the sale or closure of certain sites; (iv) the failure of a sole source or single source supplier to provide us with necessary raw materials, supplies or finished goods for an extended period of time that could impact continuous supply; (v) the failure of a third-party manufacturer to supply us with finished product on time; (vi) construction or regulatory approval delays related to new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for our biologics products; and (vii) other manufacturing or distribution problems including limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements; changes in the types of products produced, such as biologics; physical limitations or other business interruptions that could impact continuous supply.    26    We may experience difficulties or delays in the development and commercialization of new products.  We may experience difficulties and delays in the development and commercialization of new products, including the inherent risks and uncertainties in developing products, such as (i) compounds or products that may appear promising in development but fail to reach market within the expected or optimal timeframe, or fail ever to reach market, or to be approved for product extensions or additional indications for any number of reasons, including efficacy or safety concerns, the delay or denial of necessary regulatory approvals, delays or difficulties with producing products at a commercial scale level or excessive costs to manufacture products; (ii) failure to enter into or successfully implement optimal alliances, where applicable, for the development and/or commercialization of products; (iii) failure to maintain a consistent scope and variety of promising late-stage products; or (iv) failure of one or more of our products to achieve or maintain commercial viability. In addition, we have observed a recent trend by the U.S. FDA to delay its approval decision on a new product beyond its announced action date, sometimes by as much as six months or longer. Regulatory approval delays are especially common when the product is expected to have a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy to address significant risk/benefit issues. The inability to bring a product to market or a significant delay in the expected approval and related launch date of a new product could potentially have a negative impact on our net sales and earnings and could result in a significant impairment of in-process research and development or other intangible assets. In January 2012, BMS and our collaboration partner, AstraZeneca, received a complete response letter regarding our NDA for dapagliflozin. The complete response letter requests additional data to allow a better assessment of the benefit-risk profile for dapagliflozin. This includes clinical trial data from ongoing studies and may require information from new clinical trials. Finally, a natural or man-made disaster or sabotage of research and development labs, our compound library and/or a loss of key molecules and intermediaries could negatively impact the product development cycle.  There are legal matters in which adverse outcomes could negatively affect our business.  We are currently involved in or could in the future become involved in various lawsuits, claims, proceedings and government investigations, any of which could preclude or delay commercialization of products or adversely affect operations, profitability, liquidity or financial condition after any possible insurance recoveries where available. Such legal matters include (i) intellectual property disputes; (ii) sales and marketing practices in the U.S. and internationally; (iii) adverse decisions in litigation, including product liability and commercial cases; (iv) recalls or withdrawals of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (v) the failure to fulfill obligations under supply contracts with the government and other customers which may result in liability; (vi) product pricing and promotional matters; (vii) lawsuits and claims asserting, or investigations into, violations of securities, antitrust, federal and state pricing, consumer protection, antibribery (such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practice Act or UK Anti-Bribery Act) and other laws; (viii) environmental, health and safety matters; and (ix) tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that there will not be an increase in scope in any or all of these matters or that there will not be additional lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations in the future; nor is there any assurance that any or all of these matters will not have a material adverse impact on us.  We rely on third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations.  We rely on suppliers, vendors and partners, including alliances with other pharmaceutical companies for the manufacturing, development and commercialization of products, and other third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations in relation to their arrangements with us. The failure of any critical third party to meet its obligations, and/or the development of significant disagreements or other factors that materially disrupt the ongoing commercial relationship and prevent optimal alignment between the third parties and their activities, could have a material adverse impact on us. In addition, if these third parties violate or are alleged to have violated any laws or regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, during the performance of their obligations for us, it is possible that we could suffer financial and reputational harm or other negative outcomes, including possible legal consequences.  We are dependent on our outsourcing arrangements.  We are dependent on third-party providers for certain outsourced services, including certain research and development capabilities, certain financial outsourcing arrangements, certain human resource functions, and information technology activities and systems. Many of these third-party providers are located in markets that are subject to political risk, corruption, infrastructure problems and natural disasters in addition to country specific privacy and data security risks given current legal and regulatory environments. The failure of these service providers to meet their obligations, adequately deploy business continuity plans in the event of a crisis and/or the development of significant disagreements, natural or man-made disasters or other factors that materially disrupt our ongoing relationship with these providers could negatively affect operations.  Failure to execute our business strategy could adversely impact our growth and profitability.  Over the last several years, we have transformed from a diversified pharmaceutical and related healthcare products company into a biopharmaceutical company with a focus on innovative products in areas of high unmet medical need. We are focused on sustaining our business and building a foundation for the future after PLAVIX*, our largest selling product, loses exclusivity in the U.S. in May 2012. We plan to achieve this foundation by continuing to support and grow our currently marketed products, advancing our late-stage pipeline, managing our costs, and maintaining and improving our financial strength with a strong balance sheet and cash    27     position. There are risks associated with this strategy. We may not be able to consistently replenish our innovative pipeline, through internal research and development or transactions with third parties. The competition among major pharmaceutical companies for acquisition and product licensing opportunities has become more intense, eliminating some opportunities and making others more expensive. We may not be able to locate suitable acquisition targets or licensing partners at reasonable prices or successfully execute such transactions. Additionally, changes in our structure, operations, revenues, costs, or efficiency resulting from major transactions such as acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, alliances, restructurings or other strategic initiatives, may result in greater than expected costs, may take longer than expected to complete or may encounter other difficulties, including the need for regulatory approval where appropriate. The inability to expand our product portfolio with new products or maintain a competitive cost basis could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations. If we are unable to support and grow our currently marketed products, successfully execute the launches of newly approved products, advance our late-stage pipeline and manage our costs effectively, we could experience a significant or material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our failure to hire and retain personnel with the right expertise and experience in operations that are critical to our business functions could adversely impact the execution of our business strategy.  We are increasingly dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity and data leakage risks.  We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure. Any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. There is also a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber attack, such as an infiltration of a data center, or data leakage of confidential information either internally or at our third-party providers. While we have invested heavily in the protection of our data and information technology to reduce these risks, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business.  The expansion of social media platforms presents new risks and challenges.  The inappropriate use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications from the improper collection and/or dissemination of personally identifiable information. In addition, negative posts or comments about us on any social networking web site could seriously damage our reputation. Further, the disclosure of non-public company sensitive information through external media channels could lead to information loss as there might not be structured processes in place to secure and protect information. Identifying new points of entry as social media continues to expand presents new challenges.  Adverse changes in U.S., global, or regional economic conditions could have a continuing adverse effect on the profitability of some or all of our businesses.  High government debt burdens and continued high unemployment rates, rising prices, including those related to commodities and energy, and lower economic growth has adversely affected commercial activity in the U.S., Europe and other regions of the world in which we do business. Further government austerity measures or declines in economic activity in markets in which we do business could adversely affect demand and pricing for our products, thus reducing our revenues, earnings and cash flow, as well as have pass-through effects on us resulting from any significant financial instability from our customers, distributors, alliance partners, suppliers, critical vendors, service providers and counterparties to certain financial instruments, such as marketable securities and derivatives. Future pension plan funding requirements continue to be sensitive to global economic conditions and related impact on equity markets.  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  We have significant operations outside of the U.S. Revenues from operations outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 35% of our revenues in 2011. As such, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We also have some borrowings which are exposed to changes in interest rates. We are also exposed to other economic factors over which we have no control.  The illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of our products or stolen products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business.  Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products, which do not meet the rigorous manufacturing and testing standards that our products undergo. A patient who receives a counterfeit drug may be at risk for a number of dangerous health consequences. Our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit drugs sold under our brand name. In addition, thefts of inventory at warehouses, plants or while in-transit which are not properly stored and which are sold through unauthorized channels could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation and our business.    28      Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.