Item 1A. RISK FACTORS.  Any of the factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results, or credit ratings, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or risks that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our operations.  We face intense competition from other biopharmaceutical manufacturers, including for both innovative medicines and lower-priced generic products.  Competition, including lower-priced generic versions of our products, is a major challenge both within the U.S. and internationally. We face patent expirations and increasingly aggressive generic competition. Such competition may include (i) new products developed by competitors that have lower prices, real or perceived superior efficacy (benefit) or safety (risk) profiles, or that are otherwise competitive with our products; (ii) technological advances and patents attained by our competitors; (iii) earlier-than-expected competition from generic companies; (iv) clinical study results from our products or a competitor’s products; (v) business combinations among our competitors and major customers; and (vi) competing interests for external partnerships to develop and bring new products to markets. We could also experience limited or no market access from real or perceived differences in value propositions for our products compared with competitors.  It is possible that we may lose market exclusivity of a product earlier than expected.  In the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which it has market exclusivity. In the U.S. and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there are usually very substantial and rapid declines in the product’s sales.  Market exclusivity for our products is based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. The scope of our patent rights vary from country to country and may also be dependent on the availability of meaningful legal remedies in that country. The failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use or loss of such rights, could be material to us. In some countries, including certain EU member states, basic patent protection for our products may not exist because certain countries did not historically offer the right to obtain specific types of patents and/or we (or our licensors) did not file in those markets. In addition, the patent environment outside the U.S. can be unpredictable and the validity and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. Absent relevant patent protection for a product, once the data exclusivity period expires, generic versions of the product can be approved and marketed. In addition, prior to the expiration of data exclusivity, a competitor could seek regulatory approval by submitting its own clinical trial data to obtain marketing approval.  Manufacturers of generic products are also increasingly seeking to challenge patents before they expire. Key patents covering three of our key products (Atripla*, Baraclude and Sprycel) are currently the subject of patent litigation. In some cases, generic manufacturers may choose to launch a generic product “at risk” before the expiration of the applicable patent(s) and/or before the final resolution of related patent litigation. For example, we may face generic competition for Baraclude beginning in 2013 following a federal court’s decision to invalidate the composition of matter patent in February 2013. There is no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that appears in the estimates disclosed in this Form 10-K.  Increased pricing pressure and other restrictions in the U.S. and abroad from managed care organizations, institutional purchasers, and government agencies and programs could negatively affect our net sales and profit margins.  Pharmaceutical products continue to be subject to increasing price pressures and other restrictions in the U.S., the EU and other regions around the world, including but not limited to: (i) rules and practices of managed care organizations and institutional and governmental purchasers; (ii) judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations for Medicare, Medicaid and U.S. healthcare reform, including the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and any potential additional U.S. healthcare reform measures; (iii) the potential impact of importation restrictions, legislative and/or regulatory changes, pharmaceutical reimbursement, Medicare Part D Formularies and product pricing in general; (iv) delays in gaining reimbursement and/or reductions in reimbursement amounts in countries with government-mandated, cost-containment programs; (v) government price erosion mechanisms across Europe, resulting in deflation for pharmaceutical product pricing; (vi) other developments in technology and/or industry practices that could directly or indirectly impact the reimbursement policies and practices of third-party payers; and (vii) limited or no market access due to real or perceived differences in value propositions for our products compared to competing products.  We may experience difficulties or delays in the development and commercialization of new products.  Developing and commercializing new products includes inherent risks and uncertainties, such as (i) compounds or products that may appear promising in development but fail to reach market within the expected or optimal timeframe, or fail ever to reach market or to be approved for product extensions or additional indications, including for efficacy or safety concerns, the delay or denial of necessary regulatory approvals, delays or difficulties with producing products at a commercial scale level or excessive costs to manufacture products; (ii) failure to enter into or successfully implement optimal alliances for the development and/or commercialization of new products; (iii) failure to maintain a consistent scope and variety of promising late-stage products; (iv) failure of one or more of our products to achieve or maintain commercial viability; and (v) changes in the regulatory approval processes that may cause delays or denials of new product approvals. We have observed a recent trend by the U.S. Food & Drug Administration to delay its approval decision on a new product beyond its announced action date by as much as six months or longer.    27     Regulatory approval delays are especially common when the product is expected to have a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy as required by the FDA to address significant risk/benefit issues. The inability to bring a product to market or a significant delay in the expected approval and related launch date of a new product could potentially have a negative impact on our net sales and earnings and, if the product was acquired, it could result in a significant impairment of in-process research and development or other intangible assets. Further, if certain acquired pipeline programs are cancelled or if we believe that their commercial prospects have been reduced, we may recognize material non-cash impairment charges for those programs. These non-cash impairment charge could be material such as the $1.8 billion impairment for BMS-986094, which we recorded in 2012. Finally, a natural or man-made disaster or sabotage of research and development labs, our compound library and/or a loss of key molecules and intermediaries could negatively impact the product development cycle.  Failure to execute our business strategy could adversely impact our growth and profitability.  We are a biopharmaceutical company with a focus on innovative products for high unmet medical needs. To build a foundation for the future, our strategy is to grow our key marketed products, advance our late-stage pipeline and manage our costs. We may not be able to consistently replenish our innovative pipeline, through internal research and development or transactions with third parties. The competition among major pharmaceutical companies for acquisition and product licensing opportunities is intense, and we may not be able to locate suitable acquisition targets or licensing partners at reasonable prices, or successfully execute such transactions. We also may not be able to realize the expected increased efficiencies and effectiveness from continuous improvement initiatives or other changes in our structure or operations, including from the recent reorganization of our commercial operations and the creation of our Enterprises Services organization. In addition, realizing synergies and other expected benefits from acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, alliances, restructurings or other strategic initiatives, may take longer than expected to complete or may encounter other difficulties, including the need for regulatory approval where applicable. If we are unable to support and grow our currently marketed products, successfully execute the launches of newly approved products, advance our late-stage pipeline and manage our costs effectively, we could experience a significant or material negative impact to our operating results and financial condition. In addition, our failure to hire and retain personnel with the right expertise and experience in critical operations could adversely impact the execution of our business strategy.  The businesses we acquire may underperform, and we may not be able to successfully integrate them into our existing business.  We may continue to support our pipeline with our licensing and acquisitions strategy. In August 2012, we acquired Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Amylin), a biopharmaceuticals company dedicated to the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative medicines for patients with diabetes and other metabolic diseases. Amylin and our other acquired businesses, products and technologies may underperform relative to expectations, which may negatively impact our financial results including potential impairment charges for acquired intangible assets, including identifiable intangible assets attributed to the Amylin acquisition of $6.5 billion at the acquisition date. Future sales, profits and cash flows of an acquired company’s products, technologies and pipeline candidates, may not materialize due to lower product uptake, delayed or missed pipeline opportunities, the inability to capture expected synergies, increased competition, safety concerns, regulatory issues, supply chain problems, or other factors beyond our control. Substantial difficulties, costs and delays could result from integrating our acquisitions including for (i) research & development, manufacturing, distribution, sales, marketing, promotion and information technology activities; (ii) policies, procedures, processes, controls and compliance; (iii) company cultures; (iv) compensation structures and other human resource activities; and (v) tax considerations.  We depend on certain key products for most of our net sales, cash flows and earnings.  We have historically derived a majority of our revenue and earnings from a few key products. For example, Plavix* represented over 33% of our revenues in 2011. While we are becoming less dependent on any single product, we still derive a significant amount of our revenues from a few key products. In 2012, Abilify* net sales of $2.8 billion represented 16% of revenues. Reyataz and the Sustiva franchise, with combined net sales of $3.0 billion, each represented approximately 9% of revenues, Baraclude, Sprycel and Orencia net sales each exceeded $1.0 billion. A reduction in net sales of one or more of these products could significantly negatively impact our net sales, cash flows and earnings.  Changes in U.S. or foreign laws and regulations may negatively affect our net sales and profit margins.  We could become subject to new government laws and regulations, such as (i) additional healthcare reform initiatives in the U.S. or in other countries, including additional mandatory discounts; (ii) changes in corporate tax regulation, including as part of the proposed U.S. budget deficit reduction package, which could include limiting foreign tax credits, taxing certain tax havens, taxing certain excess income from transferring intellectual property, limiting or disallowing certain U.S. deductions for operating and interest expenses, changing rules for earnings repatriations and eliminating certain tax credits, as well as changing the tax rate or phasing out currently available tax benefits in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries or other changes in tax law; (iii) new laws, regulations and judicial or other governmental decisions affecting pricing, drug reimbursement, receivable repayment, access or marketing within or across jurisdictions; (iv) changes in intellectual property law; (v) changes in accounting standards; (vi) increasing data privacy regulations and enforcement; (vii) emerging and new requirements regarding payments to healthcare professionals, and (viii) other matters, such as compulsory licenses that could alter the protections afforded to one or more of our products. Any legal or regulatory changes could negatively affect our business, our operating results and the financial condition of our company. Emerging legislation to reduce the budget deficit in the U.S. or in other countries, if enacted, will likely further reduce our operating results.    28    Product labeling changes for our marketed products could potentially result in unexpected safety or efficacy concerns and have a negative impact on that product’s sales.  Regulatory authorities can change the labeling for any pharmaceutical product at any time, including after the product has been on the market for years. These changes are often the result of additional data from post-marketing studies, head-to-head trials, reporting of adverse events, studies that identify biomarkers (objective characteristics that can indicate a particular response to a product or therapy), or other studies that produce important additional information about a product. The new information added to a product’s label can affect the safety and/or the efficacy profile of the product, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining revenue, as well as product liability claims. Sometimes the additional information from these studies identifies a portion of the patient population that may be non-responsive to a medicine and labeling changes based on such studies may limit the patient population, such as the changes to the labeling for Plavix* and Erbitux* a few years ago. The studies providing such additional information may be sponsored by us, but they can also be sponsored by our competitors, insurance companies, government institutions, managed care organizations, influential scientists, investigators, or other interested parties. While additional safety and efficacy information from these studies assist us and healthcare providers in identifying the best patient population for each of our products, it can also have a negative impact on sales for any such product to the extent that the patient population or product labeling becomes more limited. Additionally, certain study results, especially from head-to-head trials, could affect a product’s formulary listing, which could also adversely affect sales.  We could experience difficulties and delays in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products.  Our product supply and related patient access to products could be negatively impacted by, among other things: (i) seizure or recalls of products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (ii) supply chain continuity including from natural or man-made disasters at one of our facilities or at a critical supplier or vendor, as well as our failure or the failure of any of our vendors or suppliers to comply with Current Good Manufacturing Practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (iii) manufacturing, quality assurance/quality control, supply problems or governmental approval delays; (iv) the failure of a sole source or single source supplier to provide us with necessary raw materials, supplies or finished goods for an extended period of time; (v) the failure of a third-party manufacturer to supply us with finished product on time; (vi) construction or regulatory approval delays related to new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for our biologics products; (vii) the failure to meet new and emerging regulations requiring products to be tracked throughout the distribution channels using unique identifiers; and (viii) other manufacturing or distribution issues including limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements; changes in the types of products produced, such as biologics; physical limitations or other business interruptions.  Adverse outcomes in legal matters could negatively affect our business.  Current or future lawsuits, claims, proceedings and government investigations could preclude or delay commercialization of products or could potentially adversely affect operations, profitability, liquidity or financial condition, after any possible insurance recoveries where available. Such legal matters include (i) intellectual property disputes; (ii) sales and marketing practices in the U.S. and internationally; (iii) adverse decisions in litigation, including product liability and commercial cases; (iv) recalls or withdrawals of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (v) the failure to fulfill obligations under supply contracts with the government and other customers; (vi) product pricing and promotional matters; (vii) lawsuits and claims asserting, or investigations into, violations of securities, antitrust, Federal and state pricing, consumer protection, antibribery (such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practice Act or UK Anti-Bribery Act) and other laws; (viii) environmental, health and safety matters; and (ix) tax liabilities.  We depend on third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations.  We rely on suppliers, vendors, outsourcing partners, alliance partners and other third parties to research, develop, manufacture, commercialize, co-promote and sell our products; manage certain human resource, finance, information technology and other functional services; and meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations in relation to their arrangements with us. Some of these third-party providers are located in markets that are subject to political risk, corruption, infrastructure problems and natural disasters in addition to country specific privacy and data security risks given current legal and regulatory environments. The failure of any critical third party to meet its obligations; adequately deploy business continuity plans in the event of a crisis; and/or satisfactorily resolve significant disagreements with us or address other factors, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operations and results. In addition, if these third parties violate or are alleged to have violated any laws or regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, U.K. Bribery Act and other similar laws and regulations, during the performance of their obligations for us, it is possible that we could suffer financial and reputational harm or other negative outcomes, including possible legal consequences.  We are increasingly dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including from cyber security and data leakage.  A significant breakdown, invasion, corruption, destruction or interruption of critical information technology systems, or infrastructure by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. The ever-increasing use and evolution of technology, including cloud-based computing, creates opportunities for data leakage of confidential information. We could also experience a business interruption, information theft, or reputational damage from malware or other cyber attacks, which may compromise our system infrastructure or lead to data leakage, either internally or at our third-party providers. Although the aggregate impact on our operations and financial condition has not been material to date, we have been the targets of events of this nature and expect them to continue. We have invested in industry appropriate protections and monitoring practices of our data and information technology to reduce these risks and continue to monitor our systems on an ongoing basis for any current or potential threats. There can be no assurance, however, that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches to our or our third party providers’ databases or systems that could adversely affect our business.    29    The expansion of social media platforms presents new risks and challenges.  The inappropriate and/or unauthorized use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications, including from the improper collection and/or dissemination of personally identifiable information. In addition, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us on any social networking web site could damage our reputation, brand image and goodwill. Further, the disclosure of non-public company sensitive information through external media channels could lead to information loss, as there might not be structured processes in place to secure and protect information. Identifying new points of entry as social media continues to expand presents new challenges.  Adverse changes in U.S., global, regional or local economic conditions could adversely affect our profitability.  The world’s major economies hold historically-high debt levels while experiencing slow economic growth and high unemployment. The European sovereign debt crisis has strained government spending and created capital markets volatility. We have significant operations in Europe, including for manufacturing. Our exposure to customer credit risks in Europe, including from government-guaranteed hospital receivables, will likely increase as our ability to factor receivables becomes more limited. In addition, future pension plan funding requirements continue to be sensitive to global economic conditions and the related impact on equity markets. We are also exposed to other commercial risks and economic factors over which we have no control, which could pose significant challenges to our underlying profitability.  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and liquidity.  We have significant operations outside of the U.S. Net sales from operations outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 41% of our net sales in 2012. As such, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates which can be difficult to mitigate. We are also exposed to changes in interest rates. Our ability to access the money markets and/or capital markets could be impeded if adverse liquidity market conditions occur.  The illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of our products or stolen products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business.  Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products, which do not meet our rigorous manufacturing and testing standards. A patient who receives a counterfeit drug may be at risk for a number of dangerous health consequences. Our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit drugs sold under our brand name. In addition, thefts of inventory at warehouses, plants or while in-transit, which are not properly stored and which are sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation and our business.      Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.