ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS  Reference is made to the factors set forth under the caption “Forward-Looking Statements” in Part I, Item 2 of this Form 10-Q and other risk factors described in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended    49    Table of Contents  December 31, 2012, which are incorporated herein by reference. There have not been any material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.      ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION  In connection with the previously announced retirement of Richard M. Bracken as Chief Executive Officer and continued employment as Chairman of the Company, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement with Mr. Bracken on August 2, 2013 (the “Amended Employment Agreement”). Pursuant to the terms of the Amended Employment Agreement, Mr. Bracken will continue to be employed by HCA Management Services, L.P., an affiliate of the Company, and shall serve as Chairman of the Company for a period commencing January 1, 2014 and ending December 31, 2014 (the “Employment Term”). The material amendments to Mr. Bracken’s prior employment agreement as set forth in the Amended Employment Agreement are described below.  Pursuant to the Amended Employment Agreement, Mr. Bracken shall receive a base salary at the monthly rate of $83,333.33 during the Employment Term (the “Base Salary”). In addition, Mr. Bracken shall be entitled to the full amount of any annual bonus earned, but unpaid, as of the effective date of the Amended Employment Agreement for the year ended December 31, 2013 under the Company’s 2013 Senior Officer Performance Excellence Program (the “PEP”). For calendar year 2014, Mr. Bracken shall be eligible to earn a bonus with a “target” payout of $750,000 based upon the achievement of certain objectives to be determined by the compensation committee of the Company or subcommittee thereof. In addition, Mr. Bracken shall receive a grant of the Company’s restricted stock units with a grant date value of $375,000 on or about the date the Company grants annual equity awards to its executive officers for calendar year 2014, which shall vest 100% upon the expiration of the Employment Term or Mr. Bracken’s sooner voluntary termination for any reason.  The Amended Employment Agreement provides that Mr. Bracken’s earned benefit pursuant to the Company’s Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as amended (the “SERP”), shall be frozen effective as of the close of business on December 31, 2013. The Amended Employment Agreement also provides that if Mr. Bracken is not survived by his spouse, or if Mr. Bracken’s surviving spouse is entitled to the survivor benefit pursuant to the SERP but dies before payment of her benefit has been made, the SERP benefit shall be paid to the estate of the last to survive of Mr. Bracken or his spouse in a single lump-sum payment.  Pursuant to the Amended Employment Agreement, effective as of the expiration of the Employment Term or Mr. Bracken’s sooner voluntary termination for any reason (including by reason of death or disability, but other than for “good reason” (as defined in the Amended Employment Agreement)), Mr. Bracken would be entitled to receive (i) any Base Salary that is earned and unpaid through the date of termination; (ii) any annual bonus earned, but unpaid, for the year ended December 31, 2013 under the PEP as of the date of termination; (iii) a pro rata portion of any 2014 annual bonus that Mr. Bracken would have been entitled to receive pursuant to the Amended Employment Agreement based upon the Company’s actual results for 2014 (with such proration based on the percentage of the fiscal year that shall have elapsed through the date of termination of employment, payable to Mr. Bracken when the 2014 annual bonus would have been otherwise payable (the “Prorated Bonus”)); (iv) reimbursement of any unreimbursed business expenses properly incurred; (v) continued coverage under the Company’s group health plans for Mr. Bracken and his wife until age 65; and (vi) such employee benefits, if any, as to which Mr. Bracken may be entitled under the Company’s employee benefit plans.  The Amended Employment Agreement provides that Mr. Bracken shall continue to vest with respect to any options, stock appreciation rights or restricted share units granted to Mr. Bracken under the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan for Key Employees of HCA Holdings, Inc. and its Affiliates, as amended and restated (the “Equity Awards”), through continued service during the Employment Term. The Amended Employment Agreement further provides that each grant of Mr. Bracken’s vested Equity Awards shall remain exercisable until the earlier to occur of (a) the date that is eighteen (18) months following the termination of Mr. Bracken’s employment with the Company and (b) the expiration of the original ten (10) year term of the respective grants of such vested Equity Awards in accordance with the terms of the applicable equity award agreements.    50    Table of Contents If Mr. Bracken’s employment is terminated by the Company without “cause” or by Mr. Bracken for “good reason” (each as defined in the Amended Employment Agreement), Mr. Bracken would be entitled to receive the benefits described in the preceding two paragraphs and, subject to the delivery of a customary release and continued compliance with the noncompetition, nonsolicitation and confidentiality restrictions in the Amended Employment Agreement, an amount (if any) equal to Mr. Bracken’s Base Salary that would have been otherwise payable through the end of the Employment Term.  If Mr. Bracken’s employment is terminated by the Company for “cause”, Mr. Bracken would be entitled to receive the amounts and benefits described in the fourth paragraph of this section, except that Mr. Bracken would not be entitled to receive the Prorated Bonus. Mr. Bracken’s vested Equity Awards would, upon such event, remain exercisable for one hundred and eighty (180) days following the termination of Mr. Bracken’s employment.  The other terms of the Amended Employment Agreement are substantially the same as his prior employment agreement and as previously disclosed. The foregoing description of the Amended Employment Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended Employment Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.    51    Table of Contents   ITEM 6. EXHIBITS