Item 1A. Risk Factors  Our revenues would be adversely affected by any reduction in assets under our management as a result of either a decline in market value of such assets or net outflows, which would reduce the investment management fees we earn.  We derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with clients. Under these contracts, the investment management fees paid to us are typically based on the market value from time to time of assets under management. Assets under management may decline for various reasons. For any period in which revenues decline, our income and operating margin may decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses remain relatively fixed. Factors that could decrease assets under management (and therefore revenues) include the following:  Declines in the Market Value of the Assets in the Funds and Accounts Managed. These could be caused by price declines in the securities markets generally or by price declines in the market segments in which those assets are concentrated. Approximately 49.6% of our total assets under management were invested in equity securities and approximately 50.4% were invested in fixed income and other securities at December 31, 2007. Through the date of the filing of the Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC, markets continue to be volatile, and our AUM as of January 31, 2008 had fallen 4.9% from year-end levels. We cannot predict whether the continued volatility in the markets will result in substantial or sustained declines in the securities markets generally or result in price declines in market segments in which our assets under management are concentrated. Any of the foregoing could negatively impact our revenues, income and operating margin.  Redemptions and Other Withdrawals from, or Shifting Among, the Funds and Accounts Managed. These could be caused by investors (in response to adverse market conditions or pursuit of other investment opportunities) reducing their investments in funds and accounts in general or in the market segments on which Invesco focuses; investors taking profits from their investments; poor investment performance of the funds and accounts managed by Invesco; and portfolio risk characteristics, which could cause investors to move assets to other investment managers. Poor performance relative to other investment management firms tends to result in decreased sales, increased redemptions of fund shares, and the loss of private institutional or individual accounts, with corresponding decreases in our revenues. Failure of our funds and accounts to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, the fees we earn vary with the types of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income and stable return accounts. Therefore, our revenues may decline if clients shift their investments to lower fee accounts.  Declines in the value of seed capital and partnership investments. The company has investments in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including but not limited to equities, fixed income products, and real estate. Investments in these products are generally made to establish a track record. Adverse market conditions may result in the need to write down the value of these seed investments. As of December 31, 2007 the company had $113.6 million in seed capital and partnership investments.  9    Table of Contents  Our investment advisory agreements are subject to termination or non-renewal, and our fund and other investors may withdraw their assets at any time.  Substantially all of our revenues are derived from investment advisory agreements. Investment advisory agreements are generally terminable upon 30 or fewer days’ notice. Agreements with U.S. mutual funds may be terminated with notice, or terminated in the event of an “assignment” (as defined in the Investment Company Act), and must be renewed annually by the disinterested members of each fund’s board of directors or trustees, as required by law. In addition, the board of trustees or directors of certain other funds accounts of Invesco or our subsidiaries generally may terminate these investment advisory agreements upon written notice for any reason. Mutual fund and unit trust investors may generally withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. Institutional clients may elect to terminate their relationships with us or reduce the aggregate amount of assets under our management, and individual clients may elect to close their accounts, redeem their shares in our funds, or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures. Any termination of or failure to renew a significant number of these agreements, or any other loss of a significant number of our clients or assets under management, would adversely affect our revenues and profitability.  Our revenues and profitability from money market and other fixed-income assets may be harmed by interest rate, liquidity and credit volatility.  In a rising-rate environment, certain institutional investors using money market products and other short-term duration fixed-income products for cash management purposes may shift these investments to direct investments in comparable instruments in order to realize higher yields than those available in money market and other fund products holding lower yielding instruments. These redemptions would reduce managed assets, thereby reducing our revenues. In addition, rising interest rates will tend to reduce the market value of bonds held in various investment portfolios and other products. Thus, increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our revenues from money market portfolios and from other fixed-income products. If securities within a money market portfolio default, or investor redemptions force the portfolio to realize losses, there could be negative pressure on its net asset value. Although money market investments are not guaranteed instruments, the company might decide, under such a scenario, that it is in its best interest to provide support in the form of a support agreement, capital infusion, or other methods to help stabilize a declining net asset value. Some of these methods could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Additionally, we have $39.0 million of equity at risk invested in our collateralized loan and debt obligation products, the valuation of which could change with changes in interest and default rates. We have no significant or direct exposure to SIVs or sub-prime commercial paper.  We operate in an industry that is highly regulated in the U.S. and numerous foreign countries, and any adverse changes in the regulations governing our business could decrease our revenues and profitability.  As with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. Laws and regulations applied at the national, state or provincial and local level generally grant governmental agencies and industry self-regulatory authorities broad administrative discretion over our activities, including the power to limit or restrict business activities. Possible sanctions include the revocation of licenses to operate certain businesses, the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market of any of our business organizations or their key personnel, the imposition of fines and censures on us or our employees and the imposition of additional capital requirements. It is also possible that laws and regulations governing our operations or particular investment products could be amended or interpreted in a manner that is adverse to us.  Certain of our subsidiaries are required to maintain minimum levels of capital. These and other similar provisions of applicable law may have the effect of limiting withdrawals of capital, repayment of intercompany loans and payment of dividends by such entities. After redomicile and after consultation with the U.K. Financial Services Authority (FSA), it has been determined that, for the purposes of prudential supervision, Invesco Ltd. is not subject to regulatory consolidated capital requirements under current European Union (EU) Directives. A sub-group, however, including all of our regulated EU subsidiaries, is subject to these consolidated capital requirements, and capital is maintained within this sub-group to satisfy these regulations. At December 31, 2007, the European sub-group had cash and cash equivalent balances of $758.1 million, much of which is used to satisfy these regulatory requirements. Complying with our regulatory commitments may result in an increase in the capital requirements applicable to the European sub-group. As a result of corporate restructuring and the regulatory undertakings that we have given, certain of these EU subsidiaries may be required to limit their distributions. We cannot guarantee that further corporate restructuring will not be required to comply with applicable legislation.  10    Table of Contents  The regulatory environment in which we operate frequently changes and has seen significant increased regulation in recent years. We may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. To the extent that existing regulations are amended or future regulations are adopted that reduce the sale, or increase the redemptions, of our products and services, or that negatively affect the investment performance of our products, our aggregate assets under management and our revenues could be adversely affected. In addition, regulatory changes could impose additional costs which could negatively impact our profitability.  Civil litigation and governmental enforcement actions and investigations could adversely affect our assets under management and future financial results, and increase our costs of doing business.  Invesco and certain related entities have in recent years been subject to various legal proceedings arising from normal business operations and/or matters that have been the subject of previous regulatory actions. See Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for additional information.  Our investment management professionals and other key employees are a vital part of our ability to attract and retain clients, and the loss of a significant portion of those professionals could result in a reduction of our revenues and profitability.  Retaining highly skilled technical and management personnel is important to our ability to attract and retain clients and retail shareholder accounts. The market for investment management professionals is competitive and has grown more so in recent periods as the investment management industry has experienced growth. The market for investment managers is also increasingly characterized by the movement of investment managers among different firms. Our policy has been to provide our investment management professionals with compensation and benefits that we believe are competitive with other leading investment management firms. However, we may not be successful in retaining our key personnel, and the loss of a significant portion, either in quality or quantity, of our investment management personnel could reduce the attractiveness of our products to potential and current clients and could, therefore, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. During 2007, several members of our Stable Value team departed for a competitor, which resulted in net outflows of AUM of $16.2 billion.  If our reputation is harmed, we could suffer losses in our business, revenues and net income.  Our business depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of clients, regulators and other market participants, and the resulting good reputation is critical to our business. Our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. Regulatory inquiries, employee misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage our reputation, even if they are baseless or satisfactorily addressed. Any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our assets under management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income.  Competitive pressures may force us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, increase commissions paid to our financial intermediaries or provide more support to those intermediaries, all of which could reduce our profitability.  The investment management business is highly competitive, and we compete based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financing strength, strength and continuity of client and intermediary relationships, quality of service, level of fees charged for services and the level of compensation paid and distribution support offered to financial intermediaries. We continue to face market pressures regarding fee levels in certain products.  We face strong competition in every market in which we operate. Our competitors include a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. Some of these institutions have greater capital and other resources, and offer more comprehensive lines of products and services, than we do. The recent trend toward consolidation within the investment management industry has served to increase the strength of a number of our competitors. These  11    Table of Contents  strengthened competitors seek to expand their market share in many of the products and services we offer. If these competitors are successful, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry by new investment management firms, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various distribution channels around the world have also resulted in increased competition.  We may engage in strategic transactions that could create risks.  As part of our business strategy, we regularly review, and from time to time have discussions with respect to potential strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be material. There can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to accomplish such transactions, or be successful in entering into agreements for desired transactions.  Acquisitions, including completed acquisitions, also pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or employees or could underperform relative to expectations. We could also experience financial or other setbacks if transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to execution or integration. Following the completion of an acquisition, we may have to rely on the seller to provide administrative and other support, including financial reporting and internal controls, to the acquired business for a period of time. There can be no assurance that the seller will do so in a manner that is acceptable to us.  Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position.  We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, we had outstanding total long-term debt of $1,276.4 million (which excludes $116.6 million of debt held by consolidated investment products) and shareholders’ equity of $6,590.6 million. The significant amount of indebtedness we carry could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes, increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry, and place us at a disadvantage in relation to our competitors. Any or all of the above factors could materially adversely affect our financial position.  We have received credit ratings of A3 and BBB+ from Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s credit rating agencies, respectively, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Both Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s have a “stable” outlook for the rating as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe that rating agency concerns include but are not limited to: our ability to sustain net positive asset flows across customer channels, product type and geographies, our substantial indebtedness, and our ability to maintain consistent positive investment performance. Material deterioration of these factors, and others defined by each rating agency, could result in downgrades to our credit ratings, thereby limiting our ability to generate additional financing or receive mandates. Management believes that solid investment grade ratings are an important factor in winning and maintaining institutional business and strives to manage the company to maintain such ratings.  Our credit facility imposes restrictions on our ability to conduct business and, if amounts borrowed under it were to be accelerated, we might not have sufficient assets to repay such amounts in full.  Our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, including maximum debt-to-earnings and minimum interest coverage ratios. This credit facility also contains customary affirmative operating covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, restrict certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to incur debt and restrict our ability to transfer assets, merge, make loans and other investments and create liens. The breach of any covenant would result in a default under the credit facility. In the event of any such default, lenders that are party to the credit facility could refuse to make further extensions of credit to us and require all amounts borrowed under the credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. If any indebtedness under the credit facility were to be accelerated, we might not have sufficient liquid assets to repay such indebtedness in full.  Changes in the distribution channels on which we depend could reduce our revenues and hinder our growth.  We sell a portion of our investment products through a variety of financial intermediaries, including major wire houses, regional broker-dealers, banks and financial planners in North America, and independent brokers and financial advisors, banks and financial organizations in Europe and Asia. Increasing competition for these distribution channels could cause our distribution costs to rise, which would lower our net revenues. Additionally, certain of the intermediaries upon whom we rely to distribute our investment products also sell their own competing  12    Table of Contents  proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our products. In addition, some investors rely on third-party financial planners, registered investment advisers, and other consultants or financial professionals to advise them on the choice of investment adviser and investment portfolio. These professionals and consultants could favor a competing investment portfolio as better meeting their particular client’s needs. There is no assurance that our investment products will be among their recommended choices in the future. Additionally, if one of our major distributors were to cease operations, it could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Moreover, any failure to maintain strong business relationships with these distribution sources would impair our ability to sell our products, which could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability.  We could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard confidential and sensitive information.  We maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations as part of our regular operations. Our systems could be attacked by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information.  Such disclosure could, among other things, damage our reputation, allow competitors to access our proprietary business information, result in liability for failure to safeguard our clients’ data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, or require material capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach.  Our business is vulnerable to failures in support systems and customer service functions that could lead to loss of customers, breaches and errors, or claims against us or our subsidiaries.  The ability to consistently and reliably obtain securities pricing information, process client portfolio and fund shareholder transactions and provide reports and other customer service to fund shareholders and investors in other accounts managed by us is essential to our continuing success. Any delays or inaccuracies in obtaining pricing information, processing such transactions or such reports, other breaches and errors, and any inadequacies in other customer service, could result in reimbursement obligations or other liabilities, or alienate customers and potentially give rise to claims against us. Our customer service capability, as well as our ability to obtain prompt and accurate securities pricing information and to process transactions and reports, is highly dependent on communications and information systems and on third-party vendors. These systems could suffer failures or interruptions due to various natural or man-made causes, and our back-up procedures and capabilities may not be adequate to avoid extended interruptions in operations. Other similar problems could occur from time to time due to human error.  If we are unable to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity problem, we could suffer material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability.  If we were to experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. In such an event, our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems would provide us with an important advantage. Nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or technology personnel. Further, as we expand our operations in particular areas, such as India, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. Although we seek to regularly assess and improve our existing business continuity plans, a major disaster, or one that affected certain important operating areas, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability.  Since many of our subsidiary operations are located outside of the United States and have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar, changes in the exchange rates to the U.S. dollar may affect our reported financial results from one period to the next.  The largest component of our net assets, revenues and expenses, as well as our assets under management, is presently derived from the United States. However, we have a large number of subsidiaries outside of the United States whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar.  13    Table of Contents  As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rates to the U.S. dollar may affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. We do not actively manage our exposure to such effects. Consequently, changes in exchange rates to the U.S. dollar could have a material negative impact on our reported financial results.  The carrying value of goodwill on our balance sheet could become impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations.  We have goodwill on our balance sheet that is subject to an annual impairment review. Goodwill totaled $6,848.0 million at December 31, 2007 (2006: $6,360.7 million). We may not realize the value of such goodwill. We perform impairment reviews of the book values of goodwill on an annual basis. A variety of factors could cause such book values to become impaired. Should valuations be deemed to be impaired, a write-down of the related asset would occur, adversely affecting our results of operations for the period.  Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to shareholders.  Our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. As a Bermuda company, we are governed by the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda (“Companies Act”). The Companies Act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to United States corporations and shareholders, including provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors.  Under Bermuda law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company, and may only do so in limited circumstances. Directors and officers may owe duties to a company’s creditors in cases of impending insolvency. Directors and officers of a Bermuda company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company and must exercise the care and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. Directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests may conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any material contract or proposed material contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries. If a director or officer of a Bermuda company is found to have breached his duties to that company, he may be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty.  Our bye-laws provide for indemnification of our directors and officers in respect of any loss arising or liability attaching to them in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to us other than in respect of his own fraud or dishonesty, which is the maximum extent of indemnification permitted under the Companies Act. Under our bye-laws, each of our shareholders agrees to waive any claim or right of action, other than those involving fraud, against us or any of our officers or directors.  Legislative and other measures that may be taken by U.S. and/or other governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows.  Under current laws, as the company is domiciled and tax resident in Bermuda, taxation in other jurisdictions is dependent upon the types and the extent of the activities of the company undertaken in those jurisdictions. There is a risk that changes in either the types of activities undertaken by the company or changes in tax rules relating to tax residency could subject the company and its shareholders to additional taxation. Additionally, under existing U.S. tax rules earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries of the company are not subject to U.S. taxation.  We continue to assess the impact of various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the United States and foreign countries, that could result in a material increase in our U.S. federal and state taxes. More recently, several proposals have been introduced in the U.S. Congress that, if ultimately enacted, could limit treaty benefits on certain payments made by our U.S. subsidiaries to non-U.S. affiliates. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. However, if such proposals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing tax treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on the company, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  14    Table of Contents  Examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods.  The company and its subsidiaries’ income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. We recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. We adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities.     Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments