RISK FACTORS     The following discussion sets forth certain risks that the Company believes could cause its actual future results to differ materially from expected results.  Economic conditions. The profitability of Citigroup’s businesses may be affected by global and local economic conditions, such as the liquidity of the global financial markets, the level and volatility of interest rates and equity prices, investor sentiment, inflation, and the availability and cost of credit.  The Company generally maintains large trading portfolios in the fixed income, currency, commodity and equity markets and has significant investment positions, including investments held by its private equity business. The revenues derived from these portfolios are directly affected by economic conditions.  The credit quality of Citigroup’s on-balance sheet assets and off-balance sheet exposures is also affected by economic conditions, as more loan delinquencies would likely result in a higher level of charge-offs and increased provisions for credit losses, adversely affecting the Company’s earnings. The Company’s consumer businesses are particularly affected by factors such as prevailing interest rates, the rate of unemployment, the level of consumer confidence, changes in consumer spending and the number of personal bankruptcies.  Credit, market and liquidity risk. As discussed above, the Company’s earnings may be impacted through its market risk and credit risk positions and by changes in economic conditions. In addition, Citigroup’s earnings are dependent upon the extent to which management can successfully manage its positions within the global markets. In particular environments, the Company may not be able to mitigate its risk exposures as effectively as desired, and may have unwanted exposures to certain risk factors.  The Company’s earnings are also dependent upon its ability to properly value financial instruments. In certain illiquid markets, judgmental estimates of value may be required. The Company’s earnings are also dependent upon how effectively it assesses the cost of credit and manages its portfolio of risk concentrations. In addition to the direct impact of the successful management of these risk factors, management effectiveness is taken into consideration by the rating agencies, which determine the Company’s own credit ratings and thereby affect the Company’s cost of funds.  Competition. Merger activity in the financial services industry has produced companies that are capable of offering a wide array of financial products and services at competitive prices. Globalization of the capital markets and financial services industries exposes Citigroup to competition both at the global and local level. In addition, technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products. Citigroup’s ability to grow its businesses, and therefore its earnings, is affected by these competitive pressures.  Country risk. Citigroup’s international revenues are subject to risk of loss from unfavorable political and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, and changes in governmental policies, including expropriation, nationalization, international ownership legislation, interest rate caps and tax policies. In addition, revenues from the trading of international securities and investment in international securities may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above factors. The impact of these fluctuations could be accentuated because certain international trading markets, particularly those in emerging market   countries, are typically smaller, less liquid and more volatile than U.S. trading markets.  For geographic distributions of net income, see page 17. For a discussion of international loans, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 136 and “Country and Cross-Border Risk Management Process” on page 76.  Operational risk. Citigroup is exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and record-keeping errors, and computer/telecommunications systems malfunctions. Given the high volume of transactions at Citigroup, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified. In addition, the Company’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. The Company may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, epidemics, computer viruses, and electrical/ telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to customers and/or monetary loss to the Company. All of these risks are also applicable where the Company relies on outside vendors to provide services to it and its customers.  U.S. fiscal policies. The Company’s businesses and earnings are affected by the fiscal policies adopted by regulatory authorities of the United States. For example, in the United States, policies of the Federal Reserve Board directly influence the rate of interest paid by commercial banks on their interest-bearing deposits and also may affect the value of financial instruments held by the Company. In addition, such changes in fiscal policy may affect the credit quality of the Company’s customers. The actions of the Federal Reserve Board directly impact the Company’s cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities.  Reputational and legal risk. Various issues may give rise to reputational risk and cause harm to the Company and its business prospects. These issues include appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest; legal and regulatory requirements; ethical issues; money laundering laws; privacy laws; information security policies; sales and trading practices; and conduct by companies in which we hold strategic investments or joint venture partners. Failure to address these issues appropriately could also give rise to additional legal risk to the Company, which could increase the number of litigation claims and the amount of damages asserted against the Company, or subject the Company to regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties.  Certain regulatory considerations. As a worldwide business, Citigroup and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation, new legislation and changing accounting standards and interpretations thereof. Legislation is introduced, including tax consumer protection, privacy and other legislation, from time to time in Congress, in the states and in foreign jurisdictions that may change banking and financial services laws and the operating environment of the Company and its subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. The Company cannot determine whether such legislation will be enacted and the ultimate effect that would have on the Company’s results.    58    Table of Contents  MANAGING GLOBAL RISK