RISK FACTORS     Economic conditions. The profitability of Citigroup’s businesses may be affected by global and local economic conditions, such as the levels and liquidity of the global financial and other asset markets, the absolute and relative level and volatility of interest rates and equity prices, investor sentiment, inflation, and the availability and cost of credit.  The Company generally maintains large trading portfolios in the fixed income, currency, commodity and equity markets and has significant investment positions, including investments held by its private equity business. In addition, the Company periodically holds portfolios in advance of syndication or distribution activities. The revenues derived from these portfolios are directly affected by economic and market conditions (including without limitation through the valuation of these portfolios). The valuation of a significant portion of the trading portfolios is valued using models whose inputs are not observable in the market and are therefore based on management’s best estimate.  The credit quality of Citigroup’s on-balance-sheet assets and off-balance-sheet exposures is also affected by economic conditions, as more loan delinquencies would likely result in a higher level of charge-offs and increased provisions for credit losses, and lower levels of other revenues adversely affecting the Company’s earnings. The Company’s consumer businesses are particularly affected by factors such as: prevailing interest rates; the rate of unemployment; the level of consumer confidence; residential real estate values, especially in the U.S.; changes in consumer spending; and the number of personal bankruptcies.  Credit, market and market liquidity risk. As discussed above, the Company’s earnings may be impacted through its market risk and credit risk positions and by changes in economic conditions. In addition, Citigroup’s earnings are dependent upon the extent to which management can successfully implement effective risk management processes and manage its positions within the global markets. In particular environments, the Company may not be able to mitigate its risk exposures as effectively as desired, and may have unwanted exposures to certain risk factors.  The Company’s earnings are also dependent upon its ability to properly value financial instruments. In certain illiquid markets, processes to ascertain value and estimates of value, both of which require substantial elements of judgment, are required. The Company’s earnings are also dependent upon how effectively it assesses the cost of credit and manages its portfolio of risk concentrations. In addition to the direct impact of the successful management of these risk factors, management effectiveness is taken into consideration by the rating agencies, which determine the Company’s own credit ratings and thereby affect the Company’s cost of funds. Moreover, actions by third parties, such as rating agency downgrades of instruments to which the Company has exposure and independent actions by market participants, can result in reduced liquidity and valuations of those instruments.  Competition. Merger activity in the financial services industry has produced companies that are capable of offering a wide array of financial products and services at competitive prices. Globalization of the capital markets and financial services industries exposes Citigroup to competition at both the global and local levels. In addition, technological advances and the growth of e-commerce and regulatory developments have made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that   traditionally were banking products. Citigroup’s ability to grow its businesses, and therefore its earnings, is affected by these competitive pressures and is dependent on Citigroup’s ability to attract and retain talented and dedicated employees.  Country risk. Citigroup’s international revenues are subject to risk of loss from unfavorable political and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, and changes in governmental policies, including expropriation, nationalization, international ownership legislation, interest-rate caps and tax policies. In addition, revenues from the trading of international securities and investment in international securities may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above factors. The impact of these fluctuations could be accentuated because certain international trading markets, particularly those in emerging market countries, are typically smaller, less liquid and more volatile than U.S. trading markets.  For geographic distributions of net income, see page 20. For a discussion of international loans, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 145 and “Country and Cross-Border Risk Management Process” on page 65.  Operational risk. Citigroup is exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and record-keeping errors, integration of numerous acquired businesses, and computer/telecommunications systems malfunctions. Given the high volume of transactions at Citigroup, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified. In addition, the Company’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. The Company may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, epidemics, computer viruses, and electrical/telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to customers and/or monetary loss to the Company. All of these risks are also applicable where the Company relies on outside vendors to provide services to it and its customers.  Fiscal and monetary policies. The Company’s businesses and earnings are affected by the policies adopted by regulatory authorities and bodies of the United States and other governments. For example, in the United States, policies of the Federal Reserve Board directly influence the rate of interest paid by commercial banks on their interest-bearing deposits and also may affect the value of financial instruments held by the Company. In addition, such changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of the Company’s customers. The actions of the Federal Reserve Board and international central banking authorities directly impact the Company’s cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities.    38    Table of Contents      MANAGING GLOBAL RISK