RISK FACTORS     Disruptions in the global financial markets have affected, and may continue to adversely affect, Citigroup’s business and results of operations.  Dramatic declines in the housing market during 2008, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivatives, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital and to merge with other financial institutions. Disruptions in the global financial markets have also adversely affected the corporate bond markets, debt and equity underwriting and other elements of the financial markets.  Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, some lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to certain borrowers, including other financial institutions. The impact on available credit (even where Citigroup and other TARP participants are making credit available), increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, Citigroup’s businesses, capital, liquidity or other financial condition and results of operations, access to credit and the trading price of Citigroup common stock, preferred stock or debt securities.  Market disruptions may increase the risk of customer or counterparty delinquency or default.  The current market and economic disruptions have affected, and may continue to affect, consumer confidence levels, consumer spending, personal bankruptcy rates and home prices, among other factors, which provide a greater likelihood that more of Citigroup’s customers or counterparties could use credit cards less frequently or become delinquent in their loans or other obligations to Citigroup. This, in turn, could result in a higher level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses, all of which could adversely affect Citigroup’s earnings. Policies of the Federal Reserve Board or other governmental institutions can also adversely affect Citigroup’s customers or counterparties, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Additionally, Citigroup may incur significant credit risk exposure which may arise, for example, from entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have long-term obligations to make payments to the Company. Recent market conditions, including decreased liquidity and pricing transparency along with increased market volatility, have negatively impacted Citigroup’s credit risk exposure. Although Citigroup regularly reviews its credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee.  Citigroup may experience further write-downs of its financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions.  Market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets have made it extremely difficult to value certain of Citigroup’s assets. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these assets in future periods. In addition, at the time of any sales of these assets, the price Citigroup ultimately realizes will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. Any of   these factors could require Citigroup to take further write-downs in respect of  these assets, which may have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition in future periods.  In addition, Citigroup finances and acquires principal positions in a number of real estate and real estate-related products for its own account, for investment vehicles managed by affiliates in which it also may have a significant investment, for separate accounts managed by affiliates and for major participants in the commercial and residential real estate markets, and originates loans secured by commercial and residential properties. Citigroup also securitizes and trades in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. These businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the downturn in the real estate sector.  Furthermore, in the past, Citigroup has provided financial support to certain of its investment products and vehicles in difficult market conditions and, Citigroup may decide to do so again in the future for contractual reasons or, at its discretion, for reputational or business reasons, including through equity investments or cash infusions.  Liquidity is essential to Citigroup’s businesses, and Citigroup relies on external sources, including governmental agencies, to finance a significant portion of its operations.  Adequate liquidity is essential to Citigroup’s businesses. The Company’s liquidity could be materially adversely affected by factors Citigroup cannot control, such as the continued general disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry in general. In addition, Citigroup’s ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of the Company’s short-term or long-term financial prospects, or a perception that the Company is experiencing greater liquidity risk. Recent regulatory measures, such as the FDIC’s temporary guarantee of the newly issued senior debt as well as deposits in non-interest bearing deposit transaction accounts, and the commercial paper funding facility of the Federal Reserve Board, are designed to stabilize the financial markets and the liquidity position of financial institutions such as Citigroup. While much of Citigroup’s recent long-term unsecured funding has been issued pursuant to these government-sponsored funding programs implemented, it is unclear whether, or for how long, these facilities will be extended and what impact termination of any of these facilities could have on Citigroup’s ability to access funding in the future. It is also unclear when Citigroup will be able to regain access to the public long-term unsecured debt markets on historically customary terms.  Further, Citigroup’s cost of obtaining long-term unsecured funding is directly related to its credit spreads in both the cash bond and derivatives markets. Increases in Citigroup’s credit qualifying spreads can significantly increase the cost of this funding. Credit spreads are influenced by market perceptions of Citigroup’s creditworthiness and may be influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to Citigroup’s long-term debt.  Citigroup’s credit ratings are also important to its liquidity. A reduction in Citigroup’s credit ratings could adversely affect its liquidity, widen its credit spreads or otherwise increase its borrowing costs, limit its access to the     47    Table of Contents    capital markets or trigger obligations under certain bilateral provisions in some of the Company’s trading and collateralized financing contracts. In addition, under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to terminate certain contracts with Citigroup or require the Company to post additional collateral. Termination of the Company’s trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause Citigroup to sustain losses and impair its liquidity by requiring Citigroup to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities transfers.  Recently enacted legislation authorizing the U.S. government to take direct action within the financial services industry, and other legislation and regulation currently under consideration, may not stabilize the U.S. financial system in the near term.  On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) was signed into law. In addition, on February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) was signed by President Obama. The purpose of these U.S. government actions is to stabilize and provide liquidity to the U.S. financial markets and jumpstart the U.S. economy. The U.S. government is currently considering, and may consider in the future, additional legislation and regulations with similar purposes. The EESA, ARRA and other governmental programs may not have their intended impact of stabilizing, providing liquidity to or restoring confidence in the financial markets. Further, the discontinuation and/or expiration of these or other governmental programs could result in a worsening of current market conditions.  Citigroup may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the proposed realignment of its businesses.  On January 16, 2009, Citigroup announced that it would realign into two businesses, Citicorp and Citi Holdings, for management and reporting purposes, effective second quarter of 2009. The realignment is part of Citigroup’s strategy to focus on its core businesses, reduce its balance sheet and simplify its assets. Citigroup believes this structure will allow it to enhance the capabilities and performance of Citigroup’s core assets, through Citicorp, as well as realize value from its non-core assets, through Citi Holdings. Citi Holdings will also include Citigroup’s 49% interest in the recently announced Morgan Stanley Smith Barney joint venture, a transaction which is also intended to simplify and streamline the Company on a going-forward basis. Despite these efforts, given the rapidly changing and uncertain financial environment, there can be no assurance that the realignment of Citigroup’s businesses will achieve the Company’s desired objectives or benefits.  Future issuance of Citigroup common stock and preferred stock may reduce any earnings available to common stockholders and the return on the Company’s equity.  During 2008, Citigroup raised a total of approximately $77.3 billion in private and public offerings of preferred and common stock and warrants to purchase common stock, including issuances to the U.S. government under TARP. While this additional capital provides further funding to Citigroup’s businesses and has improved the Company’s financial position, it has increased the Company’s equity and the number of actual and diluted shares of Citigroup common stock. On February 27, 2009, Citigroup announced an exchange offer of its common stock for up to $27.5 billion of its existing preferred securities and trust preferred securities. The U.S. government will   match this exchange up to a maximum of $25 billion of its preferred stock. These transactions will significantly dilute the existing common stockholders of the Company. In addition, such increases in the outstanding shares of common stock reduce the Company’s earnings per share and the return on the Company’s equity, unless the Company’s earnings increase correspondingly. Further, any additional future U.S. governmental requirements or programs could result in or require additional equity issuances, which further dilute the existing common stockholders and any earnings available to the common stockholders.  The elimination of QSPEs from the guidance in SFAS 140 and changes in FIN 46(R) may significantly impact  Citigroup’s consolidated financial statements.  The FASB has issued an Exposure Draft of a proposed standard that would eliminate qualified SPEs (QSPEs) from the guidance in SFAS 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, and a separate Exposure Draft of a proposed standard that proposes three key changes to the consolidation model in FIN 46(R). Such changes include the following: (i) former QSPEs would be included in the scope of FIN 46(R); (ii) FIN 46(R) would be amended to change the method of analyzing which party to a variable interest entity (VIE) should consolidate the VIE to a qualitative determination of power combined with benefits and losses; and (iii) the analysis of primary beneficiaries would have to be reevaluated whenever circumstances change.  While these proposed standards have not been finalized, they may have a significant impact on Citigroup’s consolidated financial statements as the Company may lose sales treatment for assets previously sold to a QSPE, as well as for future sales, and for transfers of a portion of an asset, and the Company will be required to bring a portion of assets that are not currently on its balance sheet onto its balance sheet. For a further discussion on SFAS 140, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” on page 18 and “Capital Resources and Liquidity—Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements—Elimination of QSPEs and Changes in the FIN 46(R) Consolidation Model” on page 104.  Citigroup’s financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates, which, if wrong, could cause unexpected losses in the future.  Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, Citigroup is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing its financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigations and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If assumptions or estimates underlying Citigroup’s financial statements are incorrect, Citigroup may experience material losses. For example, Citigroup makes judgments in connection with its consolidation analysis of its SPEs. If it is later determined that non-consolidated SPEs should be consolidated, this could adversely affect Citigroup’s consolidated balance sheet, related funding requirements and capital ratios, and, if the SPE assets include unrealized losses, could require Citigroup to recognize those losses see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” on page 18.  Changes in accounting standards can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how Citigroup records and reports its financial condition and results of operations.  Citigroup’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. From     48    Table of Contents    time to time, the FASB changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s financial statements (e.g., see for example “The elimination of QSPEs from the guidance in SFAS 140 and changes in FIN 46(R) may significantly impact Citigroup’s Consolidated Financial Statements” on page 48). These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how Citigroup records and reports its financial condition and results of operations.  Defaults by another large financial institution could adversely affect Citigroup and the financial markets generally.  The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges with which Citigroup interacts on a daily basis and, therefore, could adversely affect the Company.  Citigroup may incur significant losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies and concentration of risk increases the potential for such losses.  Citigroup seeks to monitor and control its risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. While Citigroup employs a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques (see “Managing Global Risk” on page 51), those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome in all market environments or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Recent market conditions, particularly during the latter part of 2007 and 2008, have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk.  These market movements can, and have, limited the effectiveness of Citigroup’s hedging strategies and have caused the Company to incur significant losses, and they may do so again in the future. In addition, concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in certain of Citigroup’s businesses. For example, Citigroup extends large commitments as part of its credit origination activities. Citigroup’s inability to reduce its credit risk by selling, syndicating or securitizing these positions, including during periods of market dislocation, could negatively affect its results of operations due to a decrease in the fair value of the positions, as well as the loss of revenues associated with selling such securities or loans.  In addition, the Company routinely executes a high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks and investment funds. This has resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to this industry.  Citigroup’s businesses are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world.  As a participant in the financial services industry, Citigroup is subject to extensive regulation, including fiscal and monetary policies, in jurisdictions   around the world. For example, the actions of the Federal Reserve Board and international central banking authorities directly impact Citigroup’s cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments the Company holds. This level of regulation is expected to increase significantly in all jurisdictions in which the Company conducts business in response to the current financial crisis. Among other things, Citigroup could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of its business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on its business activities, including increased capital or liquidity requirements, each of which could lead to reputational harm.  The financial services industry faces substantial legal liability and regulatory risks, and Citigroup may face damage to its reputation and legal liability.  Citigroup faces significant legal risks in its businesses, and the volume of  claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. Citigroup’s experience has been that legal claims by customers and clients increase in a market downturn. In addition, employment-related claims typically increase in periods when Citigroup has reduced the total number of employees, such as during the last fiscal year.  In addition, there have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and Citigroup runs the risk that employee misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the extensive precautions Citigroup takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases.  Citigroup’s businesses may be materially adversely affected if it is unable to hire and retain qualified employees.  Citigroup’s performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. The Company’s continued ability to compete effectively in its businesses, to manage its businesses effectively and to expand into new businesses and geographic regions depends on the Company’s ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its existing employees. Competition from within the financial services industry and from businesses outside of the financial services industry for qualified employees has often been intense. This is particularly the case in emerging markets, where Citigroup is often competing for qualified employees with entities that have a significantly greater presence or more extensive experience in the region. In addition, in 2008 the market price of Citigroup common stock declined significantly during the year. A substantial portion of the Company’s annual bonus compensation paid to its senior employees has been paid in the form of equity, meaning that such awards are not as valuable from a compensatory or retention perspective.  Moreover, Citigroup is subject to certain significant compensation restrictions applicable to a broad group of its senior management as a result of its receipt of TARP funding in December 2008 as well as other recently-adopted governmental programs and legislation. Such restrictions include restricted executive incentives, deferral of some executive compensation, equity awards with performance-vesting features, “clawback” provisions and elimination or restriction of severance pay to senior executives.    49    Table of Contents   These restrictions, alone or in combination with the other factors described above, could adversely affect Citigroup’s ability to hire and retain qualified employees.  A failure in Citigroup’s operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair the Company’s liquidity, disrupt its businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage Citigroup’s reputation and cause losses.  Citigroup’s businesses are highly dependent on its ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. These transactions, as well as the information technology services Citigroup provides to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. Due to the breadth of Citigroup’s client base and its geographical reach, developing and maintaining the Company’s operational systems and infrastructure has become increasingly challenging. Citigroup’s financial, account, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond the Company’s control, such as a spike in transaction volume or unforeseen catastrophic events, adversely affecting the Company’s ability to process these transactions or provide these services.  Citigroup also faces the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries Citigroup uses to facilitate its transactions, and as Citigroup’s interconnectivity with its clients grows, the Company increasingly faces the risk of operational failure with respect to its clients’ systems. Implementation of the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney joint venture may, at least temporarily, exacerbate these risks insofar as the activities of the joint venture are concerned.  In addition, Citigroup’s operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in its computer systems and networks. Although Citigroup takes protective measures and endeavors to modify them as circumstances warrant, its computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that could have a security impact. Given the high volume of transactions at Citigroup, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified. If one or more of such events occurs, this could potentially jeopardize Citigroup’s, its clients’, counterparties’ or third parties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, the Company’s computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in Citigroup’s, its clients’, its counterparties’ or third parties’ operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage.    50    Table of Contents MANAGING GLOBAL RISK