RISK FACTORS  REGULATORY RISKS Citi faces significant regulatory changes around the world which could negatively impact its businesses, especially given the unfavorable environment facing financial institutions and the lack of international coordination. As discussed in more detail throughout this section, Citi continues to be subject to a significant number of new regulatory requirements and changes from numerous sources, both in the U.S. and internationally, which could negatively impact its businesses, revenues and earnings. These reforms and proposals are occurring largely simultaneously and generally not on a coordinated basis. In addition, as a result of the financial crisis in the U.S., as well as the continuing adverse economic climate globally, Citi, as well as other financial institutions, is subject to an increased level of distrust, scrutiny and skepticism from numerous constituencies, including the public, state, federal and foreign regulators, the media and within the political arena. This environment, in which the U.S. and international regulatory initiatives are being debated and implemented, engenders not only a bias towards more regulation, but towards the most prescriptive regulation for financial institutions. As a result of this ongoing negative environment, there could be additional regulatory requirements beyond those already proposed, adopted or even currently contemplated by U.S. or international regulators. It is not clear what the cumulative impact of all of this regulatory reform will be. The ongoing implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as international regulatory reforms, continues to create much uncertainty for Citi, including with respect to the management of its businesses, the amount and timing of the resulting increased costs and its ability to compete.Despite enactment in July 2010, the complete scope and ultimate form of a number of provisions of The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act), such as the heightened prudential standards applicable to large financial companies, the so-called “Volcker Rule” and the regulation of derivatives markets, are still in developmental stages and significant rulemaking and interpretation remains. Moreover, agencies and offices created by the Dodd-Frank Act, such as the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, are in their early stages and the extent and timing of regulatory efforts by these bodies remains to be seen.  This uncertainty is further compounded by the numerous regulatory efforts underway outside the U.S. Certain of these efforts overlap with the substantive provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, while others, such as proposals for financial transaction and/or bank taxes in particular countries or regions, do not. In addition, even where these U.S. and international regulatory efforts overlap, these efforts generally have not been undertaken on a coordinated basis. Areas where divergence between U.S. regulators and their international counterparts exists or has begun to develop (whether with respect to scope, interpretation, timing, approach or otherwise) includes trading, clearing and reporting requirements for derivatives transactions, higher U.S. capital and margin requirements relating to uncleared derivatives transactions, and capital and liquidity requirements that may result in mandatory “ring-fencing” of capital or liquidity in certain jurisdictions, among others.   Regulatory uncertainty makes future planning with respect to the management of Citi’s businesses more difficult. For example, the cumulative effect of the new derivative rules and sequencing of implementation requirements will have a significant impact on how Citi chooses to structure its derivatives business and its selection of legal entities in which to conduct this business. Until these rules are final and interpretive questions are answered, management’s business planning and proposed pricing for this business necessarily include assumptions based on proposed rules. Incorrect assumptions could impede Citi’s ability to effectively implement and comply with the final requirements in a timely manner. Management’s planning is further complicated by the continual need to review and evaluate the impact to the business of an ongoing flow of rule proposals and interpretations from numerous regulatory bodies, all within compressed timeframes. In addition, the operational and technological costs associated with implementation of, as well as the ongoing compliance costs associated with, all of these regulations will likely be substantial. Given the continued uncertainty, the ultimate amount and timing of such costs going forward are difficult to predict. In 2011, Citi invested approximately $1 billion in order to meet various regulatory requirements, and this amount did not include many of the costs likely to be incurred pursuant to the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act or other regulatory initiatives. For example, the proposed Volcker Rule contemplates a comprehensive internal controls system as well as extensive data collection and reporting duties with respect to “proprietary trading,” and rules for registered swap dealers impose extensive recordkeeping requirements and business conduct rules for dealing with customers. All of these costs negatively impact Citi’s earnings. Given Citi’s global footprint, its implementation and compliance risks and costs are more complex and could be more substantial than its competitors. Ongoing compliance with inconsistent, conflicting or duplicative regulations across U.S. and international jurisdictions, or failure to implement or comply with these new regulations on a timely basis, could further increase costs or harm Citi’s reputation generally.  Citi could also be subject to more stringent regulation because of its global footprint. In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act, in December 2011 the Federal Reserve Board proposed a set of heightened prudential standards that will be applicable to large financial companies such as Citi. The proposal dictates requirements for aggregate counterparty exposure limits and enhanced risk management processes and oversight, among other things. Compliance with these standards could result in restrictions on Citi’s activities. Moreover, other financial institutions, including so-called “shadow banking” financial intermediaries, providing many of the same or similar services or products that Citi makes available to its customers, may not be regulated on the same basis or to the same extent as Citi and consequently may also have certain competitive advantages. Finally, uncertainty persists as to the extent to which Citi will be subject to more stringent regulations than its foreign competitors with respect to several of the regulatory initiatives, particularly in its non-U.S. operations, including certain aspects of the proposed restrictions under the Volcker Rule and derivatives clearing and margin requirements. Differences in substance  55    or severity of regulations across jurisdictions could significantly reduce Citi’s ability to compete with foreign competitors, in a variety of businesses and geographic areas, and thus further negatively impact Citi’s earnings. Citi’s prospective regulatory capital requirements remain uncertain and will likely be higher than many of its competitors. There is a risk that Citi will be unable to meet these new standards in the timeframe expected by the market or regulators. As discussed in more detail under “Capital Resources and Liquidity – Capital Resources – Regulatory Capital Standards” above, Citi’s prospective regulatory capital requirements continue to be subject to extensive rulemaking and interpretation. Ongoing areas of rulemaking include, among others, (i) the final Basel III rules applicable to U.S. financial institutions, including Citi, (ii) capital surcharges for global systemically important banks (G-SIBs), including the extent of the surcharge to be initially imposed on Citi, and (iii) implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, including imposition of enhanced prudential capital requirements on financial institutions that are deemed to pose a systemic risk to market-wide financial stability as well as provisions requiring the elimination of credit ratings from capital regulations and the Collins Amendment. It is clear that final U.S. rules implementing Basel III, the G-SIB surcharge and the capital-related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will significantly increase Citi’s regulatory capital requirements, including the amount of capital required to be in the form of common equity. However, the various regulatory capital levels Citi must maintain, the types of capital that will meet these requirements and the specific capital requirements associated with Citi’s assets remain uncertain. For example, Citi may be required to replace certain of its existing regulatory capital in a compressed timeframe or in unfavorable markets in order to comply with final rules implementing Basel III and the Collins Amendment, which eliminated trust preferred securities from the definition of Tier 1 Capital. In addition, the alternative approaches proposed to replace the use of credit ratings in accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act and final rules implementing Basel II.5 could require Citi to hold more capital against certain of its assets than it must currently.  The lack of final regulatory capital requirements impedes long-term capital planning by Citi’s management. Citi is not able to accurately forecast its capital requirements for particular exposures which complicates its ability to assess the future viability of, and appropriate pricing for, certain of its products. In addition, while management may desire to take certain actions to optimize Citi’s regulatory capital profile, such as the reduction of certain investments in unconsolidated financial entities, without clarity as to the final standards, there is risk in management either taking actions based on assumed or proposed rules or waiting to take action until final rules that are implemented in compressed timeframes. Citi’s projected ability to comply with the new capital requirements as they are implemented, or earlier, is also based on certain assumptions specific to Citi’s businesses, including its future earnings in Citicorp, the continued wind-down of Citi Holdings and the monetization of Citi’s deferred tax assets. If management’s assumptions with respect to certain aspects of Citi’s   businesses prove to be incorrect, it could negatively impact Citi’s ability to comply with the future regulatory capital requirements in a timely manner or in a manner consistent with market or regulator expectations.  Citi’s regulatory capital requirements will also likely be higher than many of its competitors. Citi’s strategic focus on emerging markets, for example, will likely result in higher risk-weighted assets and thus potentially higher capital requirements than its less global or less emerging-markets-focused competitors. In addition, within the U.S., Citi will likely face higher regulatory capital requirements than most of its U.S.-based competitors that are not subject to the G-SIB surcharge (or the same level of surcharge) or the heightened prudential capital requirements to be imposed on systemically important financial institutions. Internationally, there have already been instances of Basel III not being consistently adopted or applied across countries or regions. Any lack of a level playing field with respect to capital requirements for Citi as compared to peers or less regulated financial intermediaries, both in the U.S. and internationally, could put Citi at a competitive disadvantage. As proposed, changes in regulation of derivatives required under the Dodd-Frank Act will require significant and costly restructuring of Citi’s derivatives businesses in order to meet the new market structures and could affect the competitive position of these businesses.Once fully implemented, the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act relating to the regulation of derivatives will result in comprehensive reform of the derivatives markets. Reforms will include requiring a wide range of over-the-counter derivatives to be cleared through recognized clearing facilities and traded on exchanges or exchange-like facilities, the collection and segregation of collateral for most uncleared derivatives, extensive public transaction reporting and business conduct requirements, and significantly broadened restrictions on the size of positions that may be maintained in specified commodity derivatives. While some of the regulations have been finalized, the rulemaking process is still not complete, and the timing for the effectiveness of many of these requirements is not yet clear.  The proposed rules implementing the derivatives provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will necessitate costly and resource-intensive changes to certain areas of Citi’s derivatives business structures and practices. Those changes will include restructuring the legal entities through which those businesses are conducted and the successful and timely installation of extensive technological and operational systems and compliance infrastructure, among others. Effective legal entity restructuring will also be dependent on clients and regulators, and so may be subject to delays or disruptions not fully under Citi’s control. Moreover, new derivatives-related systems and infrastructure will likely become the basis on which institutions such as Citi compete for clients and, to the extent that Citi’s connectivity or services for clients in these businesses is deficient, Citi could be at a competitive disadvantage. More generally, the contemplated reforms will make trading in many derivatives products more costly and may significantly reduce the liquidity of certain derivatives markets and diminish customer demand for covered derivatives. These changes could negatively impact Citi’s earnings from these businesses. 56     Reforms similar to the derivatives provisions and proposed regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act are also contemplated in the European Union and certain other jurisdictions. These reforms appear likely to take effect after the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and, as a result, it is uncertain whether they will be similar to those in the U.S. or will impose different or additional requirements on Citi’s derivative activities. Complications due to the sequencing of the effectiveness of derivatives reform, both among different components of the Dodd-Frank Act and between the U.S. and other jurisdictions, could give rise to further disruptions and competitive dislocations. The proposed regulations implementing the derivatives provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, if adopted without modification, would also adversely affect the competitiveness of Citi’s non-U.S. operations. For example, the proposed regulations would require some of Citi’s non-U.S. operations to collect more margin from its non-U.S. derivatives customers than Citi’s foreign bank competitors may be required to collect. The Dodd-Frank Act also contains a so-called “push-out” provision that will prevent FDIC-insured depository institutions from dealing in certain equity, commodity and credit-related derivatives. Citi conducts a substantial portion of its derivatives-dealing activities through its insured depository institution and, to the extent that certain of Citi’s competitors already conduct such activities outside of FDIC-insured depository institutions, Citi would be disproportionately impacted by any restructuring of its business for push-out purposes. Moreover, the extent to which Citi’s non-U.S. operations will be impacted by the push-out provision and other derivative provisions remains unclear, and it is possible that Citi could lose market share or profitability in its derivatives business or client relationships in jurisdictions where foreign bank competitors can operate without the same constraints. The proposed restrictions imposed on proprietary trading and funds-related activities under the “Volcker Rule” provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act could adversely impact Citi’s market-making activities and may cause Citi to dispose of certain of its investments at less than fair value.The “Volcker Rule” provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are intended to restrict the proprietary trading activities of institutions such as Citi, as well as such institutions’ sponsorship and investment in hedge funds and private equity funds. In October 2011, the Federal Reserve Board, OCC, FDIC and SEC proposed regulations that would implement these restrictions and the CFTC followed with its proposed regulations in January 2012. The proposed regulations contain narrow exceptions for market-making, underwriting, risk-mitigating hedging, certain transactions on behalf of customers and activities in certain asset classes, and require that certain of these activities be designed not to encourage or reward “proprietary risk taking.” Because the regulations are not yet final, the degree to which Citi’s activities in these areas will be permitted to continue in their current form remains uncertain. Moreover, if adopted as proposed, the rules would require an extensive compliance regime around these “permitted” activities, and Citi could incur significant ongoing compliance and monitoring costs, including with respect to the frequent reporting of extensive metrics and risk   analytics, to the regulatory agencies. In addition, the proposed rules and any restrictions imposed by final regulations in this area will also likely affect Citi’s trading activities globally, and thus will impact it disproportionately in comparison to foreign financial institutions that will not be subject to the Volcker Rule with respect to their activities outside of the U.S. In addition, under the funds-related provisions of the Volcker Rule, bank regulators have the flexibility to provide firms with extensions allowing them to hold their otherwise restricted investments in private equity and hedge funds for some time beyond the statutory divestment period. If the regulators elect not to grant such extensions, Citi could be forced to divest certain of its investments in illiquid funds in the secondary market on an untimely basis. Based on the illiquid nature of the investments and the prospect that other industry participants subject to similar requirements would likely be divesting similar assets at the same time, such sales could be at substantial discounts to their fair value. The establishment of the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, as well as other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and ensuing regulations, could affect Citi’s practices and operations with respect to a number of its U.S. Consumer businesses and increase its costs.The Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Among other things, the CFPB was given rulemaking authority over most providers of consumer financial services in the U.S., examination and enforcement authority over the consumer operations of large banks, as well as interpretive authority with respect to numerous existing consumer financial services regulations. The CFPB began exercising these oversight authorities over the largest banks, including Citibank, N.A., during 2011. Because this is an entirely new agency, the impact on Citi, including its retail banking, mortgages and cards businesses, is largely uncertain. However, any new regulatory requirements, or modified interpretations of existing regulations, will affect Citi’s U.S. Consumer business practices and operations, potentially resulting in increased compliance costs. Furthermore, the CFPB represents an additional source of potential enforcement or litigation against Citi and, as an entirely new agency with a focus on consumer protection, the CFPB may have new or different enforcement or litigation strategies than those typically utilized by other regulatory agencies. Such actions could further increase Citi’s costs. In addition, the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act relating to the doctrine of “federal preemption” may allow a broader application of state consumer financial laws to federally chartered institutions such as Citibank, N.A. Moreover, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminated federal preemption protection for operating subsidiaries of federally chartered institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act also codified existing case law which allowed state authorities to bring certain types of enforcement actions against national banks under applicable state law and granted states the ability to bring enforcement actions and to secure remedies against national banks for violation of CFPB regulations as well. This potential exposure to state lawsuits and enforcement actions, which could be extensive, could also subject Citi to increased litigation and regulatory enforcement actions, further increasing costs. 57     The Dodd-Frank Act also provides authority to the SEC to determine fiduciary duty standards applicable to brokers for retail customers. Any new such standards or related SEC rulemakings could also affect Citi’s business practices with retail investment customers and have indirect additional effects on standards applicable to its business practices with certain institutional customers. Such standards could also likely entail additional compliance costs and result in potential incremental liability.  Regulatory requirements in the U.S. and other jurisdictions aimed at facilitating the future orderly resolution of large financial institutions could result in Citi having to change its business structures, activities and practices in ways that negatively impact its operations.The Dodd-Frank Act requires Citi to prepare a plan for the rapid and orderly resolution of Citigroup, the bank holding company, under the Bankruptcy Code in the event of future material financial distress or failure. Citi is also required to prepare a resolution plan for its insured depository institution subsidiary, Citibank, N.A., and to demonstrate how it is adequately protected from the risks presented by non-bank affiliates. These plans must include information on resolution strategy, major counterparties and “interdependencies,” among other things, and will require substantial effort, time and cost. These resolution plans will be subject to review by the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC.  Based on regulator review of these plans, Citi may have to restructure or reorganize businesses, legal entities, or operational systems and intracompany transactions in ways that negatively impact its operations, or be subject to restrictions on growth. For example, Citi could be required to create new subsidiaries instead of branches in foreign jurisdictions, or create subsidiaries to conduct particular businesses or operations (so-called “subsidiarization”), which would, among other things, increase Citi’s legal, regulatory and managerial costs, negatively impact Citi’s global capital and liquidity management and potentially impede its global strategy. Citi could also eventually be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, or be required to divest certain assets or operations, if both regulators determine that Citi’s resolution plans do not meet statutory requirements and Citi does not remedy the deficiencies within required time periods. In addition, other jurisdictions, such as the United Kingdom, have requested or are expected to request resolution plans from financial institutions, including Citi, and the requirements and timing relating to these plans are different from the U.S. requirements and each other. Responding to these additional requests will require additional effort, time and cost, and regulatory review and requirements in these jurisdictions could be in addition to, or conflict with, changes requested by Citi’s regulators in the U.S.  Citi could be harmed competitively if it is unable to hire or retain highly qualified employees as a result of regulatory requirements regarding compensation practices or otherwise.Citi’s performance and competitive standing is heavily dependent on the talents and efforts of the highly skilled individuals that it is able to attract and retain. Competition for highly qualified individuals within the financial services industry has been, and will likely continue to be, intense. Compensation is a key element of attracting and retaining highly qualified employees. Banking and other regulators in the U.S., European Union and elsewhere are in the process of developing principles, regulations and other guidance governing what are deemed to be sound compensation practices and policies. However, the steps that will be required to implement any new requirements, and the consequences of implementation, remain uncertain. In addition, compensation may continue to be a legislative focus both in Europe and in the U.S. as there has been significant legislation in Europe and the U.S. in recent years regarding compensation for certain employees of financial institutions, including provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Changes required to be made to Citi’s compensation policies and practices may hinder Citi’s ability to compete in or manage its businesses effectively, to expand into or maintain its presence in certain businesses and regions, or to remain competitive in offering new financial products and services. This is particularly the case in emerging markets, where Citi is often competing for qualified employees with financial institutions that are not subject to the same regulatory regimes as Citi and that are also seeking to expand in these markets. Moreover, new disclosure requirements or other legislation or regulation may result from the worldwide regulatory processes described above. If this were to occur, Citi could be required to make additional disclosures relating to the compensation of its employees or to restrict or modify its compensation policies, any of which could hurt its ability to hire, retain and motivate its key employees and thus harm it competitively, particularly in respect of companies not subject to these requirements. Provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and other regulations relating to securitizations will impose additional costs on securitization transactions, increase Citi’s potential liability in respect of securitizations and may prohibit Citi from performing certain roles in securitizations, each of which could make it impractical to execute certain types of transactions and may have an overall negative effect on the recovery of the securitization markets.Citi plays a variety of roles in asset securitization transactions, including acting as underwriter of asset-backed securities, depositor of the underlying assets into securitization vehicles, trustee to securitization vehicles and counterparty to securitization vehicles under derivative contracts. The Dodd-Frank Act contains a number of provisions that affect securitizations. Among other provisions, these include a requirement that securitizers retain un-hedged exposure to at least 5% of the economic risk of certain assets they securitize, a prohibition on securitization participants engaging in transactions that would involve a conflict with investors in the securitization,  58    and extensive additional requirements for review and disclosure of the characteristics of the assets underlying the securitizations. The SEC has also proposed additional extensive regulation of both publicly and privately offered securitization transactions (so-called “Reg AB II”).  The cumulative effect of these extensive regulatory changes, many of which have not been finalized, as well as other potential future regulatory changes, such as GSE reform, on securitization markets, the nature and profitability of securitization transactions, and Citi’s participation therein, cannot currently be assessed. It is likely, however, that these various measures will increase the costs of executing securitization transactions, and could effectively limit Citi’s overall volume of, and the role Citi may play in, securitizations, expose Citi to additional potential liability for securitization transactions and make it impractical for Citi to execute certain types of securitization transactions it previously executed. In addition, certain sectors of the securitization markets, particularly residential mortgage-backed securitizations, have been inactive or experienced dramatically diminished transaction volumes since the financial crisis. The impact of various regulatory reform measures could negatively delay or restrict any future recovery of these sectors of the securitization markets, and thus the opportunities for Citi to participate in securitization transactions in such sectors. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) is currently reviewing or proposing changes to several key financial accounting and reporting standards utilized by Citi which, if adopted as proposed, could have a material impact on how Citi records and reports its financial condition and results of operations.The FASB is currently reviewing or proposing changes to several of the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern key aspects of Citi’s financial statements. While the outcome of these reviews and proposed changes is uncertain and difficult to predict, certain of these changes could have a material impact on how Citi records and reports its financial condition and results of operations, and could hinder understanding or cause confusion across comparative financial statement periods. For example, the FASB’s financial instruments project could, among other things, significantly change how Citi determines the impairment on those assets and accounts for hedges. In addition, the FASB’s leasing project could eliminate most operating leases and instead capitalize them, which would result in a gross-up of Citi’s balance sheet and a change in the timing of income and expense recognition patterns for leases.  Moreover, the FASB continues its convergence project with the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) pursuant to which U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are to be converged. The FASB and IASB continue to have significant disagreements on the convergence of certain key standards affecting financial reporting, including accounting for financial instruments and hedging. In addition, the SEC has not yet determined whether, when or how U.S. companies will be required to adopt IFRS. There can be no assurance that the transition to IFRS, if and when required to be adopted by Citi, will not have a material impact on how Citi reports its financial results, or that Citi will be able to meet any required transition timeline.  MARKET AND ECONOMIC RISKS The ongoing Eurozone debt crisis could have significant adverse effects on Citi’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, particularly if it leads to any sovereign debt defaults, significant bank failures or defaults and/or the exit of one or more countries from the European Monetary Union.The ongoing Eurozone debt crisis has caused, and is likely to continue to cause, disruption in global financial markets, particularly if it leads to any future sovereign debt defaults and/or significant bank failures or defaults in the Eurozone. In spite of a number of stabilization measures taken since spring 2010, yields on government bonds of certain Eurozone countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, have remained volatile. In addition, some European banks and insurers have experienced a widening of credit spreads (and the resulting decreased availability and increased costs of funding) as a result of uncertainty regarding the exposure of such European financial institutions to these countries. This widening of credit spreads and increased cost of funding has also affected Citi due to concerns about its Eurozone exposure.  The market disruptions in the Eurozone could intensify or spread further, particularly if ongoing stabilization efforts prove insufficient. Concerns have been raised as to the financial, political and legal ineffectiveness of measures taken to date. Continued economic turmoil in the Eurozone could have a significant negative impact on Citi, both directly through its own exposures and indirectly due to a decline in general global economic conditions, which could particularly impact Citi given its global footprint and strategy. See “Managing Global Risk—Country and Cross-Border Risk” below. There can be no assurance that the various steps Citi has taken to protect its businesses, results of operations and financial condition against the results of the Eurozone crisis will be sufficient.  The effects of the Eurozone debt crisis could be even more significant if they lead to a partial or complete break-up of the European Monetary Union (EMU). The partial or full break-up of the EMU would be unprecedented and its impact highly uncertain. The exit of one or more countries from the EMU or the dissolution of the EMU could lead to redenomination of obligations of obligors in exiting countries. Any such exit and redenomination would cause significant uncertainty with respect to outstanding obligations of counterparties and debtors in any exiting country, whether sovereign or otherwise, and lead to complex, lengthy litigation. The resulting uncertainty and market stress could also cause, among other things, severe disruption to equity markets, significant increases in bond yields generally, potential failure or default of financial institutions, including those of systemic importance, a significant decrease in global liquidity, a freeze-up of global credit markets and worldwide recession. Any combination of such events would negatively impact Citi’s businesses, earnings and financial condition, particularly given Citi’s global strategy. In addition, exit and redenomination could be accompanied by imposition of capital, exchange and similar controls, which could further negatively impact Citi’s cross-border risk, other aspects of its businesses and its earnings.  59    The continued uncertainty relating to the sustainability and pace of economic recovery and market volatility has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, certain of Citi’s businesses, particularly S&B and the U.S. mortgage businesses within Citi Holdings – Local Consumer Lending.The financial services industry and the capital markets have been and will likely continue to be adversely affected by the slow pace of economic recovery and continued disruptions in the global financial markets. This continued uncertainty and disruption have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, certain of Citi’s businesses, particularly its S&B business and its Local Consumer Lending business within Citi Holdings. In particular, the corporate and sovereign bond markets, equity and derivatives markets, debt and equity underwriting and other elements of the financial markets have been and could continue to be subject to wide swings and volatility relating to issues emanating from Eurozone and U.S. economic issues. As a result of this uncertainty and volatility, clients have remained and may continue to remain on the sidelines or cut back on trading and other business activities and, accordingly, the results of operations of Citi’s S&B businesses have been and could continue to be volatile and negatively impacted. Moreover, the continued economic uncertainty in the U.S., accompanied by continued high levels of unemployment and depressed values of residential real estate, will continue to negatively impact Citi’s U.S. Consumer mortgage businesses, particularly its residential real estate and home equity loans in Citi Holdings – LCL. Given the continued decline in Citi’s ability to sell delinquent residential first mortgages, the decreased inventory of such loans for modification and re-defaults of previously modified mortgages, Citi began to experience increased delinquencies in this portfolio during the latter part of 2011. As a result, Citi could also experience increasing net credit losses in this portfolio going forward. Moreover, given the lack of markets in which to sell delinquent home equity loans, as well as the relatively fewer home equity loan modifications and modification programs, Citi’s ability to offset increased delinquencies and net credit losses in its home equity loan portfolio in Citi Holdings has been, and will continue to be, more limited as compared to residential first mortgages. See “Managing Global Risk—Credit Risk—North America Consumer Mortgage Lending” and “—Consumer Loan Modification Programs” below.  Concerns about the level of U.S. government debt and downgrade, or concerns about a potential downgrade, of the U.S. government credit rating could have a material adverse effect on Citi’s businesses, results of operations, capital, funding and liquidity.In August 2011, Standard & Poor’s lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. government from AAA to AA+ and in the second half of 2011, Moody’s Investors Services and Fitch both placed the U.S. rating on negative outlook. According to the credit rating agencies, these actions resulted from the high level of U.S. government debt and the continued inability of Congress to reach an agreement to ensure payment of   U.S. government debt and reduce the U.S. debt level. If the credit rating of the U.S. government is further downgraded, the ratings and perceived creditworthiness of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by institutions, agencies or instrumentalities directly linked to the U.S. government could also be correspondingly affected. A future downgrade of U.S. debt obligations or U.S. government-related obligations by one or more credit rating agencies, or heightened concern that such a downgrade might occur, could negatively affect Citi’s ability to obtain funding collateralized by such obligations as well as the pricing of such funding. Such a downgrade could also negatively impact the pricing or availability of Citi’s funding as a U.S. financial institution. In addition, such a downgrade could affect financial markets and economic conditions generally and the market value of the U.S. debt obligations held by Citi. As a result, such a downgrade could lead to a downgrade of Citi debt obligations and could have a material adverse effect on Citi’s business, results of operations, capital, funding and liquidity. Citi’s extensive global network, particularly its operations in the world’s emerging markets, subject it to emerging market and sovereign volatility and further increases its compliance and regulatory risks and costs.Citi believes its extensive and diverse global network—which includes a physical presence in approximately 100 countries and services offered in over 160 countries and jurisdictions—provides it with a unique competitive advantage in servicing the broad financial services needs of large multinational clients and customers around the world, including in many emerging markets. International revenues have recently been the largest and fastest-growing component of Citicorp, driven by emerging markets.  However, this global footprint also subjects Citi to a number of risks associated with international and emerging markets, including exchange controls, limitations on foreign investment, socio-political instability, nationalization, closure of branches or subsidiaries, confiscation of assets and sovereign volatility, among others. For example, there have been recent instances of political turmoil and violent revolutionary uprisings in some of the countries in which Citi operates, including in the Middle East, to which Citi has responded by transferring assets and relocating staff members to more stable jurisdictions. While these previous incidents have not been material to Citi, such disruptions could place Citi’s staff and operations in danger and may result in financial losses, some significant, including nationalization of Citi’s assets.  Further, Citi’s extensive global operations increase its compliance and regulatory risks and costs. For example, Citi’s operations in emerging markets subject it to higher compliance risks under U.S. regulations primarily focused on various aspects of global corporate activities, such as anti-money-laundering regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which can be more acute in less developed markets and thus require substantial investment in order to comply. Any failure by Citi to remain in compliance with applicable U.S. regulations, as well as the regulations in the countries and markets in which it operates as a result of its global footprint, could result in fines, penalties, injunctions or other similar restrictions, any of which could negatively impact Citi’s earnings and its general reputation.  60    In addition, complying with inconsistent, conflicting or duplicative regulations requires extensive time and effort and further increases Citi’s compliance, regulatory and other costs. It is uncertain how the ongoing Eurozone debt crisis will affect emerging markets. A recession in the Eurozone could cause a ripple effect in emerging markets, particularly if banks in developed economies decrease or cease lending to emerging markets, as is currently occurring in some cases. This impact could be disproportionate in the case of Citi in light of the emphasis on emerging markets in its global strategy. Decreased, low or negative growth in emerging market economies could make execution of Citi’s global strategy more challenging and could adversely affect Citi’s revenues, profits and operations.  The maintenance of adequate liquidity depends on numerous factors outside of Citi’s control, including without limitation market disruptions and increases in Citi’s credit spreads. Adequate liquidity and sources of funding are essential to Citi’s businesses. Citi’s liquidity and sources of funding can be significantly and negatively impacted by factors it cannot control, such as general disruptions in the financial markets or negative perceptions about the financial services industry in general, or negative investor perceptions of Citi’s liquidity, financial position or credit worthiness in particular. Market perception of sovereign default risks, such as issues in the Eurozone as well as other complexities regarding the current European debt crisis, can also lead to ineffective money markets and capital markets, which could further impact Citi’s availability of funding. In addition, Citi’s cost and ability to obtain deposits, secured funding and long-term unsecured funding from the capital markets are directly related to its credit spreads. Changes in credit spreads constantly occur and are market-driven, including both external market factors as well as factors specific to Citi, and can be highly volatile. Citi’s credit spreads may also be influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to Citi’s long-term debt, which are also impacted by these external and Citi-specific factors. Moreover, Citi’s ability to obtain funding may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to access the markets at the same time, or if market appetite is reduced, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. In addition, clearing organizations, regulators, clients and financial institutions with which Citi interacts may exercise the right to require additional collateral based on these market perceptions or market conditions, which could further impair Citi’s access to funding.   The credit rating agencies continuously review the ratings of Citi and its subsidiaries, and reductions in Citi’s and its subsidiaries’ credit ratings could have a significant and immediate impact on Citi’s funding and liquidity through cash obligations, reduced funding capacity and additional margin requirements. The rating agencies continuously evaluate Citi and its subsidiaries, and their ratings of Citi’s and its more significant subsidiaries’ long-term/senior debt and short-term /commercial paper, as applicable, are based on a number of factors, including financial strength, as well as factors not entirely within the control of Citi and its subsidiaries, such as the agencies’ proprietary rating agency methodologies and conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. Citi and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their current respective ratings. Ratings downgrades by Fitch, Moody’s or S&P could have a significant and immediate impact on Citi’s funding and liquidity through cash obligations, reduced funding capacity and additional margin requirements for derivatives or other transactions. Ratings downgrades could also have a negative impact on other funding sources, such as secured financing and other margined transactions, for which there are no explicit triggers. Some entities may also have ratings limitations as to their permissible counterparties, of which Citi may or may not be aware. A reduction in Citi’s or its subsidiaries’ credit ratings could also widen Citi’s credit spreads or otherwise increase its borrowing costs and limit its access to the capital markets. For additional information on the potential impact of a reduction in Citi’s or its subsidiaries’ credit ratings, see “Capital Resources and Liquidity—Funding and Liquidity—Credit Ratings” above. 61    BUSINESS RISKS Citi is subject to extensive litigation, investigations and inquiries pertaining to a myriad of U.S. mortgage-related activities that could take significant time to resolve and may subject Citi to extensive liability, including in the form of penalties and other equitable remedies, that could negatively impact Citi’s future results of operations. Virtually every aspect of mortgage-related activity in the U.S. is being challenged across the financial services industry in private and public litigation and by regulators, governmental agencies and state attorneys general, among others. Examples of the activities being challenged include the accuracy of offering documents for residential mortgage-backed securities, potential breaches of representations and warranties in the placement of mortgage loans into securitization trusts, mortgage servicing practices, the legitimacy of the securitization of mortgage loans and the Mortgage Electronic Registration System’s role in tracking mortgages, holding title and participating in the mortgage foreclosure process, fair lending, compliance with the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, and False Claim Act violations alleged in “qui tam” cases, among others.  Sorting out which of the many claims being asserted has legal merit as well as which financial institutions may be subject to liability with respect to their actual practices is a complex process that is highly uncertain and will take time to resolve. All of these inquiries, actions and investigations have resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, significant time, expense and diversion of management’s attention, and could result in significant liability as well as negative reputational and other costs to Citi.  Citi is currently party to numerous actions relating to claims of misrepresentations or omissions in offering documents of residential mortgage-backed securities sponsored or serviced by Citi affiliates. This litigation has been brought by a number of institutional investors, including the Federal Housing Finance Agency. The cases are all in early stages, making it difficult to predict how they will develop, and Citi believes that such litigation will continue for several years. In addition, because the statute of limitations will soon expire for these types of disclosure-based claims, Citi could experience an increase in filed claims in the near term. Citi is exposed to representation and warranty (i.e., mortgage repurchase) liability through its U.S. Consumer mortgage businesses and, to a lesser extent, through legacy private-label residential mortgage securitizations sponsored by its S&B business. With respect to its Consumer businesses, during 2011, Citi increased its repurchase reserve from approximately $969 million to $1.2 billion at December 31, 2011. To date, the majority of repurchase demands have come from the GSEs. The level of repurchase demands by GSEs has been trending upwards and Citi currently expects it to remain elevated for some time. To a lesser extent, Citi has received repurchase demands from private investors, although these claims have been volatile and could increase in the future.    With regard to legacy S&B private-label mortgage securitizations, while S&B has to date received actual claims for breaches of representations and warranties relating to only a small percentage of the mortgages included in its securitization transactions, the pace of claims remains volatile and has recently increased, Citi has also experienced an increase in the level of inquiries, assertions and requests for loan files, among other matters, relating to such securitization transactions from trustees of securitization trusts and others. These inquiries could lead to actual claims for breaches of representations and warranties, or to litigation relating to such breaches or other matters. For additional information on these matters, see “Managing Global Risk—Credit Risk—Consumer Mortgage—Representations and Warranties” and “—Securities and Banking-Sponsored Private-Label Residential Mortgage Securitizations—Representations and Warranties” below. For further discussion of the matters above, see Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Citi will not be able to wind down Citi Holdings at the same pace as it has in the past three years. As a result, the remaining assets in Citi Holdings will likely continue to have a negative impact on Citi’s results of operations and its ability to utilize the capital supporting the remaining assets in Citi Holdings for more productive purposes.Citi will not be able to dispose of or wind down the businesses or assets that are part of Citi Holdings at the same level or pace as in the past three years. As of December 31, 2011, assuming the transfer to Citicorp of the substantial majority of retail partner cards, effective in the first quarter of 2012, LCL constituted approximately 70% of Citi Holdings. As of such date, over half of the remaining assets in LCL consisted of legacy U.S. mortgages which will likely be subject to run-off over an extended period of time. Besides mortgages, the remaining assets in LCL include the OneMain Financial business, as well as student, commercial real estate and credit card loans in North America, and consumer lending businesses in Europe and Asia. BAM primarily consists of the MSSB JV. Morgan Stanley has call rights on Citi’s ownership interest in the venture over a three-year period beginning in 2012, which it is not required to exercise. Of the remaining assets in SAP, interest-earning assets have become a smaller portion of the assets, causing negative net interest revenues in the business as the remaining non-interest earning assets, which require funding, represent a larger portion of the total asset pool. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, approximately 25% of the remaining assets in SAP were held-to-maturity securities. As a result, the remaining assets within Citi Holdings will likely continue to have a negative impact on Citi’s overall results of operations for the foreseeable future, particularly after the transfer of retail partner cards to Citicorp. In addition, as of December 31, 2011 and as adjusted to reflect the transfer of retail partner cards, roughly 21% of Citi’s risk-weighted assets were in Citi Holdings, and were supported by approximately $24 billion of Citi’s regulatory capital. Accordingly, Citi’s ability to release the capital supporting these businesses and thus use such capital for more productive purposes will depend on the ultimate pace and level of Citi Holdings divestitures, portfolio run-offs and asset sales. 62    Citi’s ability to increase its common stock dividend or initiate a share repurchase program is subject to regulatory and government approval.Since the second quarter of 2011, Citi has paid a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.01 per share. In addition to Board of Directors’ approval, any decision by Citi to increase its common stock dividend, including the amount thereof, or initiate a share repurchase program is subject to regulatory approval, including the results of the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process required by the Federal Reserve Board. Restrictions on Citi’s ability to increase the amounts of its common stock dividend or engage in share repurchase programs could negatively impact market perceptions of Citi, including the price of its common stock. In addition, pursuant to its agreements with certain U.S. government entities, dated June 9, 2009, executed in connection with Citi’s exchange offers consummated in July and September 2009, Citi remains subject to dividend and share repurchase restrictions for as long as the U.S. government continues to hold any Citi trust preferred securities acquired in connection with the exchange offers. While these restrictions may be waived, they generally prohibit Citi from paying regular cash dividends in excess of $0.01 per share of common stock per quarter or from redeeming or repurchasing any Citi equity securities, which includes its common stock, or trust preferred securities. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $3.025 billion of trust preferred securities issued to the FDIC remained outstanding (of which approximately $800 million is being held for the benefit of the U.S. Treasury). Citi may be unable to maintain or reduce its level of expenses as it expects, and investments in its businesses may not be productive.Citi continues to pursue a disciplined expense-management strategy, including re-engineering, restructuring operations and improving the efficiency of functions, such as call centers and collections, to achieve a targeted percentage expense savings annually. However, there is no guarantee that Citi will be able to maintain or reduce its level of expenses in the future, particularly as expenses incurred in Citi’s foreign entities are subject to foreign exchange volatility, and regulatory compliance and legal and related costs are difficult to predict or control, particularly given the current regulatory and litigation environment. Moreover, Citi has incurred, and will likely continue to incur, costs of investing in its businesses. These investments may not be as productive as Citi expects or at all. Furthermore, as the wind down of Citi Holdings slows, Citi’s ability to continue to reduce its expenses as a result of this wind down will also decline.   The value of Citi’s deferred tax assets (DTAs) could be reduced if corporate tax rates in the U.S. or certain state or foreign jurisdictions are decreased or as a result of other potential significant changes in the U.S. corporate tax system.There have been discussions in Congress and by the Obama Administration regarding potentially decreasing the U.S. corporate tax rate. Similar discussions have taken place in certain state and foreign jurisdictions. While Citi may benefit in some respects from any decreases in these corporate tax rates, any reduction in the U.S., state or foreign corporate tax rates would result in a decrease to the value of Citi’s DTAs, which could be significant. There have also been recent discussions of more sweeping changes to the U.S. tax system, including changes to the tax treatment of foreign business income. It is uncertain whether or when any such tax reform proposals will be enacted into law, and whether or how they will affect Citi’s ability to make effective use of its DTAs.  The expiration of a provision of the U.S. tax law that allows Citi to defer U.S. taxes on certain active financing income could significantly increase Citi’s tax expense.Citi’s tax provision has historically been reduced because active financing income earned and indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. is taxed at the lower local tax rate rather than at the higher U.S. tax rate. Such reduction has been dependent upon a provision of the U.S. tax law that defers the imposition of U.S. taxes on certain active financing income until that income is repatriated to the U.S. as a dividend. This “active financing exception” expired on December 31, 2011 with respect to taxable years beginning after such date. While the exception has been scheduled to expire on numerous prior occasions, Congress has extended it each time, including retroactively to the start of the tax year. Congress could still take action to retroactively extend the active financing exception to the beginning of 2012. However, there can be no assurance that it will do so. If the exception is not extended, the U.S. tax imposed on Citi’s active financing income earned outside the U.S. would increase, which could further result in Citi’s tax expense increasing significantly, particularly beginning in 2013.  63    Citi’s operational systems and networks have been, and will continue to be, vulnerable to an increasing risk of continually evolving cybersecurity or other technological risks which could result in the disclosure of confidential client or customer information, damage to Citi’s reputation, additional costs to Citi, regulatory penalties and financial losses.A significant portion of Citi’s operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information as well as the monitoring of a large number of complex transactions on a minute-by-minute basis. For example, through its global consumer banking, credit card and Transaction Services businesses, Citi obtains and stores an extensive amount of personal and client-specific information for its retail, corporate and governmental customers and clients and must accurately record and reflect their extensive account transactions. These activities have been, and will continue to be, subject to an increasing risk of cyber attacks, the nature of which is continually evolving. Citi’s computer systems, software and networks have been and will continue to be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks and other events. These threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. If one or more of these events occurs, it could result in the disclosure of confidential client information, damage to Citi’s reputation with its clients and the market, additional costs to Citi (such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory penalties and financial losses, to both Citi and its clients and customers. Such events could also cause interruptions or malfunctions in the operations of Citi (such as the lack of availability of Citi’s online banking system), as well as the operations of its clients, customers or other third parties. Given the high volume of transactions at Citi, certain errors or actions may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified, which would further increase these costs and consequences. Citi has recently been subject to intentional cyber incidents from external sources, including (i) data breaches, which resulted in unauthorized access to customer account data and interruptions of services to customers; (ii) malicious software attacks on client systems, which in turn allowed unauthorized entrance to Citi’s systems under the guise of a client and the extraction of client data; and (iii) denial of service attacks, which attempted to interrupt service to clients and customers. While Citi was able to detect these prior incidents before they became significant, they still resulted in losses as well as increases in expenditures to monitor against the threat of similar future cyber incidents. There can be no assurance that such incidents, or other cyber incidents, will not occur again, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale.   In addition, third parties with which Citi does business may also be sources of cybersecurity or other technological risks. Citi outsources certain functions, such as processing of customer credit card transactions, which results in the storage and processing of customer information by third parties. While Citi engages in certain actions to reduce the exposure resulting from outsourcing, such as limiting third-party access to the least privileged level necessary to perform job functions and restricting third-party processing to systems stored within Citi’s data centers, unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data or other cyber incidents could occur, resulting in similar costs and consequences to Citi as those discussed above. Furthermore, because financial institutions are becoming increasingly interconnected with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, including through the derivatives provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, Citi has increased exposure to operational failure or cyber attacks through third parties. While Citi maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions including significant self-insured deductibles, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. Citi’s financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates, which, if wrong, could cause unexpected losses in the future, sometimes significant.Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, Citi is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing its financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and regulatory exposures, mortgage representation and warranty claims and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If the assumptions or estimates underlying Citi’s financial statements are incorrect, Citi may experience significant losses. For additional information on the key areas for which assumptions and estimates are used in preparing Citi’s financial statements, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below, and for further information relating to litigation and regulatory exposures, see Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Citi is subject to a significant number of legal and regulatory proceedings that are often highly complex, slow to develop and are thus difficult to predict or estimate.At any given time, Citi is defending a significant number of legal and regulatory proceedings. The volume of claims and the amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation, arbitration and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high, and could further increase in the future. See, for example, “—Citi is subject to extensive litigation, investigations and inquiries pertaining to a myriad of mortgage-related activities that could take significant time to resolve and may subject Citi to extensive liability, including in the form of penalties and other equitable remedies, that could negatively impact Citi’s future results of operations.” Proceedings brought against Citi may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, disgorgement, injunctions, business improvement orders or other results adverse to it, which could materially and negatively affect Citi’s businesses, financial condition or results of operations, require material  64    changes in Citi’s operations, or cause Citi reputational harm. Moreover, the many large claims asserted against Citi are highly complex and slow to develop, and they may involve novel or untested legal theories. The outcome of such proceedings may thus be difficult to predict or estimate until late in the proceedings, which may last several years. In addition, certain settlements are subject to court approval and may not be approved. Although Citi establishes accruals for its litigation and regulatory matters according to accounting requirements, the amount of loss ultimately incurred in relation to those matters may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts accrued. In addition, while Citi takes numerous steps to prevent and detect employee misconduct, such as fraud, employee misconduct is not always possible to deter or prevent, and the extensive precautions Citi takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases, which could subject it to additional liability. Moreover, the “whistle-blower” provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act provide substantial financial incentives for persons to report alleged violations of law to the SEC and the CFTC. The final rules implementing these provisions for the SEC and CFTC became effective in August and October 2011, respectively. As such, there continues to be much uncertainty as to whether these new reporting provisions will incentivize and lead to an increase in the number of claims that Citi will have to investigate or against which Citi will have to defend itself, thus potentially further increasing Citi’s legal liabilities. For additional information relating to Citi’s potential exposure relating to legal and regulatory matters, see Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Failure to maintain the value of the Citi brand could harm Citi’s global competitive advantage, results of operations and strategy.As Citi enters into its 200th year of operations in 2012, one of its most valuable assets is the Citi brand. Citi’s ability to continue to leverage its extensive global footprint, and thus maintain one of its key competitive advantages, depends on the continued strength and recognition of the Citi brand, including in emerging markets as other financial institutions grow their operations in these markets and competition intensifies. As referenced above, as a result of the economic crisis in the U.S. as well as the continuing adverse economic climate globally, Citi, like other financial institutions, is subject to an increased level of distrust, scrutiny and skepticism from numerous constituencies, including the general public. The Citi brand could be further harmed if its public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity, whether or not true, about Citi or the financial services industry in general, or by a negative perception of Citi’s short-term or long-term financial prospects. Maintaining, promoting and positioning the Citi brand will depend largely on Citi’s ability to provide consistent, high-quality financial services and products to its clients and customers around the world. Failure to maintain its brand could hurt Citi’s competitive advantage, results of operations and strategy.  Citi may incur significant losses if its risk management processes and strategies are ineffective, and concentration of risk increases the potential for such losses.Citi monitors and controls its risk exposure across businesses, regions and critical products through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. While Citi employs a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application may not be effective and may not anticipate every economic and financial outcome in all market environments or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Market conditions over the last several years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses. Because of concentration of risk, Citi may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for Citi’s competitors. These concentrations can limit, and have limited, the effectiveness of Citi’s hedging strategies and have caused Citi to incur significant losses, and they may do so again in the future. In addition, Citi extends large commitments as part of its credit origination activities. If Citi is unable to reduce its credit risk by selling, syndicating or securitizing these positions, including during periods of market dislocation, Citi’s results of operations could be negatively affected due to a decrease in the fair value of the positions, as well as the loss of revenues associated with selling such securities or loans. Although Citi’s activities expose it to the credit risk of many different entities and counterparties, Citi routinely executes a high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial services sector, including banks, other financial institutions, insurance companies, investment banks and government and central banks. This has resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to this sector. To the extent regulatory or market developments lead to an increased centralization of trading activity through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges, this could increase Citi’s concentration of risk in this sector. 65   MANAGING GLOBAL RISK