RISK FACTORS  The following discussion sets forth what management currently believes could be the most significant regulatory, market and economic, liquidity, legal and business and operational risks and uncertainties that could impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Other factors, including those not currently known to Citi or its management, could also negatively impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition, and thus the below should not be considered a complete discussion of all of the risks and uncertainties Citi may face. REGULATORY RISKS Citi Faces Ongoing Significant Regulatory Changes and Uncertainties in the U.S. and Non-U.S. Jurisdictions in Which It Operates That Negatively Impact the Management of Its Businesses, Results of Operations and Ability to Compete.Citi continues to be subject to significant regulatory changes and uncertainties both in the U.S. and the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which it operates. As discussed throughout this section, the complete scope and ultimate form of a number of provisions of The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act) and other regulatory initiatives in the U.S. are still being finalized and, even when finalized, will likely require significant interpretation and guidance. These regulatory changes and uncertainties are compounded by numerous regulatory initiatives underway in non-U.S. jurisdictions in which Citi operates. Certain of these initiatives, such as prohibitions or restrictions on proprietary trading or the requirement to establish “living wills,” overlap with changes in the U.S., while others, such as proposals for financial transaction and/or bank taxes in particular countries or regions, currently do not. Even when U.S. and international initiatives overlap, in many instances they have not been undertaken on a coordinated basis and areas of divergence have developed with respect to scope, interpretation, timing, structure or approach. Citi could be subject to additional regulatory requirements or changes beyond those currently proposed, adopted or contemplated, particularly given the ongoing heightened regulatory environment in which financial institutions operate. For example, in connection with their orderly liquidation authority under Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act, U.S. regulators may require that bank holding companies maintain a prescribed level of debt at the holding company level. In addition, under the Dodd-Frank Act, U.S. regulators may require additional collateral for inter-affiliate derivative and other credit transactions which, depending upon rulemaking and regulatory guidance, could be significant. There also continues to be discussion of potential GSE reform which would likely affect markets for mortgages and mortgage securities in ways that cannot currently be predicted. The heightened regulatory environment has resulted not only in a tendency toward more regulation, but toward the most prescriptive regulation as regulatory agencies have generally taken a conservative approach to rulemaking, interpretive guidance and their general ongoing supervisory authority.   Regulatory changes and uncertainties make Citi’s business planning more difficult and could require Citi to change its business models or even its organizational structure, all of which could ultimately negatively impact Citi’s results of operations as well as realization of its deferred tax assets (DTAs). For example, regulators have proposed applying limits to certain concentrations of risk, such as through single counterparty credit limits or legal lending limits, and implementation of such limits currently or in the future could require Citi to restructure client or counterparty relationships and could result in the potential loss of clients. Further, certain regulatory requirements could require Citi to create new subsidiaries instead of branches in foreign jurisdictions, or create subsidiaries to conduct particular businesses or operations (so-called “subsidiarization”). This could, among other things, negatively impact Citi’s global capital and liquidity management and overall cost structure. Unless and until there is sufficient regulatory certainty, Citi’s business planning and proposed pricing for affected businesses necessarily include assumptions based on possible or proposed rules or requirements, and incorrect assumptions could impede Citi’s ability to effectively implement and comply with final requirements in a timely manner. Business planning is further complicated by the continual need to review and evaluate the impact on Citi’s businesses of ongoing rule proposals and final rules and interpretations from numerous regulatory bodies, all within compressed timeframes. Citi’s costs associated with implementation of, as well as the ongoing, extensive compliance costs associated with, new regulations or regulatory changes will likely be substantial and will negatively impact Citi’s results of operations. Given the continued regulatory uncertainty, however, the ultimate amount and timing of such impact going forward cannot be predicted. Also, compliance with inconsistent, conflicting or duplicative regulations, either within the U.S. or between the U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions, could further increase the impact on Citi. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act provided for the elimination of “federal preemption” with respect to the operating subsidiaries of federally chartered institutions such as Citibank, N.A., which allows for a broader application of state consumer finance laws to such subsidiaries. As a result, Citi is now required to conform the consumer businesses conducted by operating subsidiaries of Citibank, N.A. to a variety of potentially conflicting or inconsistent state laws not previously applicable, such as laws imposing customer fee restrictions or requiring additional consumer disclosures. Failure to comply with these or other regulatory changes could further increase Citi’s costs or otherwise harm Citi’s reputation. Uncertainty persists regarding the competitive impact of these new regulations. Citi could be subject to more stringent regulations, or could incur additional compliance costs, compared to its U.S. competitors because of its global footprint. In addition, certain other financial intermediaries may not be regulated on the same basis or to the same extent as Citi and consequently may have certain competitive advantages. Moreover, Citi could be subject to more, or more stringent, regulations than its foreign competitors because of several U.S. regulatory initiatives, particularly with respect to Citi’s non-U.S. operations. Differences in substance and severity of regulations across jurisdictions could significantly reduce Citi’s ability to  60     compete with its U.S. and non-U.S. competitors and further negatively impact Citi’s results of operations. For example, Citi conducts a substantial portion of its derivatives activities through Citibank, N.A. Pursuant to the CFTC’s current and proposed rules on cross-border implications of the new derivatives registration and trading requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, clients who transact their derivatives business with overseas branches of Citibank, N.A. could be subject to U.S. registration and other derivatives requirements. Clients of Citi and other large U.S. financial institutions have expressed an unwillingness to continue to deal with overseas branches of U.S. banks if the rules would subject them to these requirements. As a result, Citi could lose clients to non-U.S. financial institutions that are not subject to the same compliance regime. Continued Uncertainty Regarding the Timing and Implementation of Future Regulatory Capital Requirements Makes It Difficult to Determine the Ultimate Impact of These Requirements on Citi’s Businesses and Results of Operations and Impedes Long-Term Capital Planning.During 2012, U.S. regulators proposed the U.S. Basel III rules that would be applicable to Citigroup and its depository institution subsidiaries, including Citibank, N.A. U.S. regulators also adopted final rules relating to Basel II.5 market risk that were effective on January 1, 2013. This new regulatory capital regime will increase the level of capital required to be held by Citi, not only with respect to the quantity and quality of capital (such as capital required to be held in the form of common equity), but also as a result of increasing Citi’s overall risk-weighted assets. There continues to be significant uncertainty regarding the overall timing and implementation of the final U.S. regulatory capital rules. For example, while the U.S. Basel III rules have been proposed, additional rulemaking and interpretation is necessary to adopt and implement the final rules. Overall implementation phase-in will also need to be finalized by U.S. regulators, and it remains to be seen how U.S. regulators will address the interaction between the new capital adequacy rules, Basel I, Basel II, Basel II.5 and the proposed “standardized” approach serving as a “floor” to the capital requirements of “advanced approaches” institutions, such as Citigroup. (For additional information on the current and proposed regulatory capital standards applicable to Citi, see “Capital Resources and Liquidity – Capital Resources – Regulatory Capital Standards” above.) As a result, the ultimate impact of this new regime on Citi’s businesses and results of operations cannot currently be estimated. Based on the proposed regulatory capital regime, the level of capital required to be held by Citi will likely be higher than most of its U.S. and non-U.S. competitors, including as a result of the level of DTAs recorded on Citi’s balance sheet and its strategic focus on emerging markets (which could result in Citi having higher risk-weighted assets under Basel III than those of its global competitors that either lack presence in, or are less focused on, such markets). In addition, while the Federal Reserve Board has yet to finalize any capital surcharge framework for U.S. “global systemically important banks” (G-SIBs), Citi is currently expected to be subject to a   surcharge of 2.5%, which will likely be higher than the surcharge applicable to most of Citi’s U.S. and non-U.S. competitors. Competitive impacts of the proposed regulatory capital regime could further negatively impact Citi’s businesses and results of operations. Citi’s estimated Basel III capital ratios necessarily reflect management’s understanding, expectations and interpretation of the proposed U.S. Basel III requirements as well as existing implementation guidance. Furthermore, Citi must incorporate certain enhancements and refinements to its Basel II.5 market risk models, as required by both the Federal Reserve Board and the OCC, in order to retain the risk-weighted asset benefits associated with the conditional approvals received for such models. Citi must also separately obtain final approval from these agencies for the use of certain credit risk models that would also yield reduced risk-weighted assets, in part, under Basel III. All of these uncertainties make long-term capital planning by Citi’s management challenging. If management’s estimates and assumptions with respect to these or other aspects of U.S. Basel III implementation are not accurate, or if Citi fails to incorporate the required enhancement and refinements to its models as required by the Federal Reserve Board and the OCC, then Citi’s ability to meet its future regulatory capital requirements as it projects or as required could be negatively impacted, or the business and financial consequences of doing so could be more adverse than expected. The Ongoing Implementation of Derivatives Regulation Under the Dodd-Frank Act Could Adversely Affect Citi’s Derivatives Businesses, Increase Its Compliance Costs and Negatively Impact Its Results of Operations.Derivatives regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act have impacted and will continue to substantially impact the derivatives markets by, among other things: (i) requiring extensive regulatory and public reporting of derivatives transactions; (ii) requiring a wide range of over-the-counter derivatives to be cleared through recognized clearing facilities and traded on exchanges or exchange-like facilities; (iii) requiring the collection and segregation of collateral for most uncleared derivatives; and (iv) significantly broadening limits on the size of positions that may be maintained in specified derivatives. These market structure reforms will make trading in many derivatives products more costly, may significantly reduce the liquidity of certain derivatives markets and could diminish customer demand for covered derivatives. These changes could negatively impact Citi’s results of operations in its derivatives businesses. Numerous aspects of the new derivatives regime require costly and extensive compliance systems to be put in place and maintained. For example, under the new derivatives regime, certain of Citi’s subsidiaries have registered as “swap dealers,” thus subjecting them to extensive ongoing compliance requirements, such as electronic recordkeeping (including recording telephone communications), real-time public transaction reporting and external business conduct requirements (e.g., required swap counterparty disclosures), among others. These requirements require the successful and timely installation of extensive technological and operational systems and compliance infrastructure, and Citi’s failure to effectively install   61    such systems subject it to increased compliance risks and costs which could negatively impact its earnings and result in regulatory or reputational risk. Further, new derivatives-related systems and infrastructure will likely become the basis on which institutions such as Citi compete for clients. To the extent that Citi’s connectivity, product offerings or services for clients in these businesses is deficient, this could further negatively impact Citi’s results of operations Additionally, while certain of the derivatives regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act have been finalized, the rulemaking process is not complete, significant interpretive issues remain to be resolved and the timing for the effectiveness of many of these requirements is not yet clear. Depending on how the uncertainty is resolved, certain outcomes could negatively impact Citi’s competitive position in these businesses, both with respect to the cross-border aspects of the U.S. rules as well as with respect to the international coordination and timing of various non-U.S. derivatives regulatory reform efforts. For example, in mid-2012, the European Union (EU) adopted the European Market Infrastructure Regulation which requires, among other things, information on all European derivative transactions be reported to trade repositories and certain counterparties to clear “standardized” derivatives contracts through central counterparties. Many of these non-U.S. reforms are likely to take effect after the corresponding provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and, as a result, it is uncertain whether they will be similar to those in the U.S. or will impose different, additional or even inconsistent requirements on Citi’s derivatives activities. Complications due to the sequencing of the effectiveness of derivatives reform, both among different components of the Dodd-Frank Act and between the U.S. and other jurisdictions, could result in disruptions to Citi’s operations and make it more difficult for Citi to compete in these businesses. The Dodd-Frank Act also contains a so-called “push-out” provision that, to date, has generally been interpreted to prevent FDIC-insured depository institutions from dealing in certain equity, commodity and credit-related derivatives, although the ultimate scope of the provision is not certain. Citi currently conducts a substantial portion of its derivatives-dealing activities within and outside the U.S. through Citibank, N.A., its primary insured depository institution. The costs of revising customer relationships and modifying the organizational structure of Citi’s businesses or the subsidiaries engaged in these businesses remain unknown and are subject to final regulations or regulatory interpretations, as well as client expectations. While this push-out provision is to be effective in July 2013, U.S. regulators may grant up to an initial two-year transition period to each depository institution. In January 2013, Citi applied for an initial two-year transition period for Citibank, N.A. The timing of any approval of a transition period request, or any parameters imposed on a transition period, remains uncertain. In addition, to the extent that certain of Citi’s competitors already conduct these derivatives activities outside of FDIC-insured depository institutions, Citi would be disproportionately impacted by any restructuring of its business for push-out purposes. Moreover, the extent to which Citi’s non-U.S. operations will be impacted by the push-out provision remains unclear, and it is possible that Citi could lose market share or profitability in its derivatives business or client relationships in jurisdictions where foreign bank competitors can operate without the same constraints.  It Is Uncertain What Impact the Proposed Restrictions on Proprietary Trading Activities Under the Volcker Rule Will Have on Citi’s Market-Making Activities and Preparing for Compliance with the Proposed Rules Necessarily Subjects Citi to Additional Compliance Risks and Costs.The “Volcker Rule” provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are intended in part to restrict the proprietary trading activities of institutions such as Citi. While the five regulatory agencies required to adopt rules to implement the Volcker Rule have each proposed their rules, none of the agencies has adopted final rules. Instead, in July 2012, the regulatory agencies instructed applicable institutions, including Citi, to engage in “good faith efforts” to be in compliance with the Volcker Rule by July 2014. Because the regulations are not yet final, the degree to which Citi’s market-making activities will be permitted to continue in their current form remains uncertain. In addition, the proposed rules and any restrictions imposed by final regulations will also likely affect Citi’s trading activities globally, and thus will impact it disproportionately in comparison to foreign financial institutions that will not be subject to the Volcker Rule with respect to all of their activities outside of the U.S. As a result of this continued uncertainty, preparing for compliance based only on proposed rules necessarily requires Citi to make certain assumptions about the applicability of the Volcker Rule to its businesses and operations. For example, as proposed, the regulations contain exceptions for market-making, underwriting, risk-mitigating hedging, certain transactions on behalf of customers and activities in certain asset classes, and require that certain of these activities be designed not to encourage or reward “proprietary risk taking.” Because the regulations are not yet final, Citi is required to make certain assumptions as to the degree to which Citi’s activities in these areas will be permitted to continue. If these assumptions are not accurate, Citi could be subject to additional compliance risks and costs and could be required to undertake such compliance on a more compressed time frame when regulators issue final rules. In addition, the proposed regulations would require an extensive compliance regime for the “permitted” activities under the Volcker Rule. Citi’s implementation of this compliance regime will be based on its “good faith” interpretation and understanding of the proposed regulations, and to the extent its interpretation or understanding is not correct, Citi could be subject to additional compliance risks and costs. Like the other areas of ongoing regulatory reform, alternative proposals for the regulation of proprietary trading are developing in non-U.S. jurisdictions, leading to overlapping or potentially conflicting regimes. For example, in the U.K., the so-called “Vickers” proposal would separate investment and commercial banking activity from retail banking and would require ring-fencing of U.K. domestic retail banking operations coupled with higher capital requirements for the ring-fenced assets. In the EU, the so-called “Liikanen” proposal would require the mandatory separation of proprietary trading and other significant trading activities into a trading entity legally separate from the legal entity holding the banking activities of a firm. It is likely that, given Citi’s worldwide operations, some form of the Vickers and/or Liikanen proposals will eventually be applicable to a portion of Citi’s operations. While the Volcker Rule and these non-U.S. proposals are intended to address similar concerns—separating the perceived risks of  62    proprietary trading and certain other investment banking activities in order not to affect more traditional banking and retail activities—they would do so under different structures, resulting in inconsistent regulatory regimes and increased compliance and other costs for a global institution such as Citi. Regulatory Requirements in the U.S. and in Non-U.S. Jurisdictions to Facilitate the Future Orderly Resolution of Large Financial Institutions Could Negatively Impact Citi’s Business Structures, Activities and Practices.The Dodd-Frank Act requires Citi to prepare and submit annually a plan for the orderly resolution of Citigroup (the bank holding company) under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of future material financial distress or failure. Citi is also required to prepare and submit a resolution plan for its insured depository institution subsidiary, Citibank, N.A., and to demonstrate how Citibank is adequately protected from the risks presented by non-bank affiliates. These plans must include information on resolution strategy, major counterparties and “interdependencies,” among other things, and require substantial effort, time and cost across all of Citi’s businesses and geographies. These resolution plans are subject to review by the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC. If the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC both determine that Citi’s resolution plans are not “credible” (which, although not defined, is generally believed to mean the regulators do not believe the plans are feasible or would otherwise allow the regulators to resolve Citi in a way that protects systemically important functions without severe systemic disruption and without exposing taxpayers to loss), and Citi does not remedy the deficiencies within the required time period, Citi could be required to restructure or reorganize businesses, legal entities, or operational systems and intracompany transactions in ways that could negatively impact its operations, or be subject to restrictions on growth. Citi could also eventually be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, or be required to divest certain assets or operations. In addition, other jurisdictions, such as the U.K., have requested or are expected to request resolution plans from financial institutions, including Citi, and the requirements and timing relating to these plans are different from the U.S. requirements and from each other. Responding to these additional requests will require additional effort, time and cost, and regulatory review and requirements in these jurisdictions could be in addition to, or conflict with, changes required by Citi’s regulators in the U.S. Additional Regulations with Respect to Securitizations Will Impose Additional Costs, Increase Citi’s Potential Liability and May Prevent Citi from Performing Certain Roles in Securitizations.Citi plays a variety of roles in asset securitization transactions, including acting as underwriter of asset-backed securities, depositor of the underlying assets into securitization vehicles, trustee to securitization vehicles and counterparty to securitization vehicles under derivative contracts. The Dodd-Frank Act contains a number of provisions that affect securitizations. These provisions include, among others, a requirement that securitizers in certain   transactions retain un-hedged exposure to at least 5% of the economic risk of certain assets they securitize and a prohibition on securitization participants engaging in transactions that would involve a conflict with investors in the securitization. Many of these requirements have yet to be finalized. The SEC has also proposed additional extensive regulation of both publicly and privately offered securitization transactions through revisions to the registration, disclosure, and reporting requirements for asset-backed securities and other structured finance products. Moreover, the proposed capital adequacy regulations (see “Capital Resources and Liquidity—Capital Resources—Regulatory Capital Standards” above) are likely to increase the capital required to be held against various exposures to securitizations. The cumulative effect of these extensive regulatory changes as well as other potential future regulatory changes cannot currently be assessed. It is likely, however, that these various measures will increase the costs of executing securitization transactions, and could effectively limit Citi’s overall volume of, and the role Citi may play in, securitizations, expose Citi to additional potential liability for securitization transactions and make it impractical for Citi to execute certain types of securitization transactions it previously executed. As a result, these effects could impair Citi’s ability to continue to earn income from these transactions or could hinder Citi’s ability to use such transactions to hedge risks, reduce exposures or reduce assets with adverse risk-weighting in its businesses, and those consequences could affect the conduct of these businesses. In addition, certain sectors of the securitization markets, particularly residential mortgage-backed securitizations, have been inactive or experienced dramatically diminished transaction volumes since the financial crisis. The impact of various regulatory reform measures could negatively delay or restrict any future recovery of these sectors of the securitization markets, and thus the opportunities for Citi to participate in securitization transactions in such sectors. MARKET AND ECONOMIC RISKS There Continues to Be Significant Uncertainty Arising from the Ongoing Eurozone Debt and Economic Crisis, Including the Potential Outcomes That Could Occur and the Impact Those Outcomes Could Have on Citi’s Businesses, Results of Operations or Financial Condition, as well as the Global Financial Markets and Financial Conditions Generally.Several European countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain (GIIPS), continue to experience credit deterioration due to weaknesses in their economic and fiscal situations. Concerns have been raised, both within the European Monetary Union (EMU) as well as internationally, as to the financial, political and legal effectiveness of measures taken to date, and the ability of these countries to adhere to any required austerity, reform or similar measures. These ongoing conditions have caused, and are likely to continue to cause, disruptions in the global financial markets, particularly if they lead to any future sovereign debt defaults and/or significant bank failures or defaults in the Eurozone. 63     The impact of the ongoing Eurozone debt and economic crisis and other developments in the EMU could be even more significant if they lead to a partial or complete break-up of the EMU. The exit of one or more member countries from the EMU could result in certain obligations relating to the exiting country being redenominated from the Euro to a new country currency. Redenomination could be accompanied by immediate revaluation of the new currency as compared to the Euro and the U.S. dollar, the extent of which would depend on the particular facts and circumstances. Any such redenomination/revaluation would cause significant legal and other uncertainty with respect to outstanding obligations of counterparties and debtors in any exiting country, whether sovereign or otherwise, and would likely lead to complex, lengthy litigation. Redenomination/revaluation could also be accompanied by the imposition of exchange and/or capital controls, required functional currency changes and “deposit flight.” The ongoing Eurozone debt and economic crisis has created, and will continue to create, significant uncertainty for Citi and the global economy. Any occurrence or combination of the events described above could negatively impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition, both directly through its own exposures as well as indirectly. For example, at times, Citi has experienced widening of its credit spreads and thus increased costs of funding due to concerns about its Eurozone exposure. In addition, U.S. regulators could impose mandatory loan loss and other reserve requirements on U.S. financial institutions, including Citi, if a particular country’s economic situation deteriorates below a certain level, which could negatively impact Citi’s earnings, perhaps significantly. Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition could also be negatively impacted due to a decline in general global economic conditions as a result of the ongoing Eurozone crises, particularly given its global footprint and strategy. In addition to the uncertainties and potential impacts described above, the ongoing Eurozone crisis and/or partial or complete break-up of the EMU could cause, among other things, severe disruption to global equity markets, significant increases in bond yields generally, potential failure or default of financial institutions (including those of systemic importance), a significant decrease in global liquidity, a freeze-up of global credit markets and worldwide recession. While Citi endeavors to mitigate its credit and other exposures related to the Eurozone, the potential outcomes and impact of those outcomes resulting from the Eurozone crisis are highly uncertain and will ultimately be based on the specific facts and circumstances. As a result, there can be no assurance that the various steps Citi has taken to protect its businesses, results of operations and financial condition against these events will be sufficient. In addition, there could be negative impacts to Citi’s businesses, results of operations or financial condition that are currently unknown to Citi and thus cannot be mitigated as part of its ongoing contingency planning. For additional information on these matters, see “Managing Global Risk—Country Risk” below.  The Continued Uncertainty Relating to the Sustainability and Pace of Economic Recovery in the U.S. and Globally Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Businesses and Results of Operations. Moreover, Any Significant Global Economic Downturn or Disruption, Including a Significant Decline in Global Trade Volumes, Could Materially and Adversely Impact Citi’s Businesses, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.Like other financial institutions, Citi’s businesses have been, and could continue to be, negatively impacted by the uncertainty surrounding the sustainability and pace of economic recovery in the U.S. as well as globally. This continued uncertainty has impacted, and could continue to impact, the results of operations in, and growth of, Citi’s businesses. Among other impacts, continued economic concerns can negatively affect Citi’s ICG businesses, as clients cut back on trading and other business activities, as well as its Consumer businesses, including its credit card and mortgage businesses, as continued high levels of unemployment can impact payment and thus delinquency and loss rates. Fiscal and monetary actions taken by U.S. and non-U.S. government and regulatory authorities to spur economic growth or otherwise, such as by maintaining a low interest rate environment, can also have an impact on Citi’s businesses and results of operations. For example, actions by the Federal Reserve Board can impact Citi’s cost of funds for lending, investing and capital raising activities and the returns it earns on those loans and investments, both of which affect Citi’s net interest margin. Moreover, if a severe global economic downturn or other major economic disruption were to occur, including a significant decline in global trade volumes, Citi would likely experience substantial loan and other losses and be required to significantly increase its loan loss reserves, among other impacts. A global trade disruption that results in a permanently reduced level of trade volumes and increased costs of global trade, whether as a result of a prolonged “trade war” or some other reason, could significantly impact trade financing activities, certain trade dependent economies (such as the emerging markets in Asia) as well as certain industries heavily dependent on trade, among other things. Given Citi’s global strategy and focus on the emerging markets, such a downturn and decrease in global trade volumes could materially and adversely impact Citi’s businesses, results of operation and financial condition, particularly as compared to its competitors. This could include, among other things, a potential that any such losses would not be tax benefitted, given the current environment. Concerns About the Level of U.S. Government Debt and a Downgrade (or a Further Downgrade) of the U.S. Government Credit Rating Could Negatively Impact Citi’s Businesses, Results of Operations, Capital, Funding and Liquidity.Concerns about the level of U.S. government debt and uncertainty relating to fiscal actions that may be taken to address these and related issues have, and could continue to, adversely affect Citi. In 2011, Standard & Poor’s lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. government from AAA to AA+, and Moody’s and Fitch both placed such rating on negative outlook.  64    According to the credit rating agencies, these actions resulted from the high level of U.S. government debt and the continued inability of Congress to reach an agreement to ensure payment of U.S. government debt and reduce the U.S. debt level. Among other things, a future downgrade (or further downgrade) of U.S. debt obligations or U.S. government-related obligations, or concerns that such a downgrade might occur, could negatively affect Citi’s ability to obtain funding collateralized by such obligations and the pricing of such funding as well as the pricing or availability of Citi’s funding as a U.S. financial institution. Any further downgrade could also have a negative impact on financial markets and economic conditions generally and, as a result, could have a negative impact on Citi’s businesses, results of operations, capital, funding and liquidity. Citi’s Extensive Global Network Subjects It to Various International and Emerging Markets Risks as well as Increased Compliance and Regulatory Risks and Costs.During 2012, international revenues accounted for approximately 57% of Citi’s total revenues. In addition, revenues from the emerging markets (which Citi generally defines as the markets in Asia (other than Japan, Australia and New Zealand), the Middle East, Africa and central and eastern European countries in EMEA and the markets in Latin America) accounted for approximately 44% of Citi’s total revenues in 2012. Citi’s extensive global network subjects it to a number of risks associated with international and emerging markets, including, among others, sovereign volatility, political events, foreign exchange controls, limitations on foreign investment, socio-political instability, nationalization, closure of branches or subsidiaries and confiscation of assets. For example, Citi operates in several countries, such as Argentina and Venezuela, with strict foreign exchange controls that limit its ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars and/or transfer funds outside the country. In such cases, Citi could be exposed to a risk of loss in the event that the local currency devalues as compared to the U.S. dollar (see “Managing Global Risk— Country and Cross-Border Risk” below). There have also been instances of political turmoil and other instability in some of the countries in which Citi operates, including in certain countries in the Middle East and Africa, to which Citi has responded by transferring assets and relocating staff members to more stable jurisdictions. Similar incidents in the future could place Citi’s staff and operations in danger and may result in financial losses, some significant, including nationalization of Citi’s assets. Additionally, given its global focus, Citi could be disproportionately impacted as compared to its competitors by an economic downturn in the international and/or emerging markets, whether resulting from economic conditions within these markets, the ripple effect of the ongoing Eurozone crisis, the global economy generally or otherwise. If a particular country’s economic situation were to deteriorate below a certain level, U.S. regulators could impose mandatory loan loss and other reserve requirements on Citi, which could negatively impact its earnings, perhaps significantly. In addition, countries such as China, Brazil and India, each of which are part of Citi’s emerging markets strategy, have recently experienced uncertainty over   the pace and extent of future economic growth. Lower or negative growth in these or other emerging market economies could make execution of Citi’s global strategy more challenging and could adversely affect Citi’s results of operations. Citi’s extensive global operations also increase its compliance and regulatory risks and costs. For example, Citi’s operations in emerging markets subject it to higher compliance risks under U.S. regulations primarily focused on various aspects of global corporate activities, such as anti-money-laundering regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which can be more acute in less developed markets and thus require substantial investment in compliance infrastructure. Any failure by Citi to comply with applicable U.S. regulations, as well as the regulations in the countries and markets in which it operates as a result of its global footprint, could result in fines, penalties, injunctions or other similar restrictions, any of which could negatively impact Citi’s earnings and its general reputation. Further, Citi provides a wide range of financial products and services to the U.S. and other governments, to multi-national corporations and other businesses, and to prominent individuals and families around the world. The actions of these clients involving the use of Citi products or services could result in an adverse impact on Citi, including adverse regulatory and reputational impact. LIQUIDITY RISKS The Maintenance of Adequate Liquidity Depends on Numerous Factors, Including Those Outside of Citi’s Control such as Market Disruptions and Increases in Citi’s Credit Spreads.As a global financial institution, adequate liquidity and sources of funding are essential to Citi’s businesses. Citi’s liquidity and sources of funding can be significantly and negatively impacted by factors it cannot control, such as general disruptions in the financial markets or negative perceptions about the financial services industry in general, or negative investor perceptions of Citi’s liquidity, financial position or creditworthiness in particular. Market perception of sovereign default risks, including those arising from the ongoing Eurozone debt crisis, can also lead to inefficient money markets and capital markets, which could further impact Citi’s availability and cost of funding. In addition, Citi’s cost and ability to obtain deposits, secured funding and long-term unsecured funding from the credit and capital markets are directly related to its credit spreads. Changes in credit spreads constantly occur and are market-driven, including both external market factors and factors specific to Citi, and can be highly volatile. Citi’s credit spreads may also be influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to Citi’s long-term debt, which are also impacted by these external and Citi-specific factors. Moreover, Citi’s ability to obtain funding may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to access the markets at the same time, or if market appetite is reduced, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. In addition, clearing organizations, regulators, clients and financial institutions with which Citi interacts may exercise the right to  65    require additional collateral based on these market perceptions or market conditions, which could further impair Citi’s access to and cost of funding. As a holding company, Citigroup relies on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividends as well as to satisfy its debt and other obligations. Several of Citigroup’s subsidiaries are subject to capital adequacy or other regulatory or contractual restrictions on their ability to provide such payments. Limitations on the payments that Citigroup receives from its subsidiaries could also impact its liquidity. For additional information on Citi’s funding and liquidity, including Basel III regulatory liquidity standards, see “Capital Resources and Liquidity—Funding and Liquidity—Liquidity Management, Measures and Stress Testing” above. The Credit Rating Agencies Continuously Review the Ratings of Citi and Certain of Its Subsidiaries, and Reductions in Citi’s or Its More Significant Subsidiaries’ Credit Ratings Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Funding and Liquidity Due to Reduced Funding Capacity, Including Derivatives Triggers That Could Require Cash Obligations or Collateral Requirements.The credit rating agencies, such as Fitch, Moody’s and S&P, continuously evaluate Citi and certain of its subsidiaries, and their ratings of Citi’s and its more significant subsidiaries’ long-term/senior debt and short-term/commercial paper, as applicable, are based on a number of factors, including financial strength, as well as factors not entirely within the control of Citi and its subsidiaries, such as the agencies’ proprietary rating agency methodologies and assumptions and conditions affecting the financial services industry and markets generally. Citi and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their current respective ratings. A ratings downgrade by Fitch, Moody’s or S&P could negatively impact Citi’s ability to access the capital markets and other sources of funds as well as the costs of those funds, and its ability to maintain certain deposits. A ratings downgrade could also have a negative impact on Citi’s funding and liquidity due to reduced funding capacity, including derivative triggers, which could take the form of cash obligations and collateral requirements. In addition, a ratings downgrade could also have a negative impact on other funding sources, such as secured financing and other margined transactions for which there are no explicit triggers, as well as on contractual provisions which contain minimum ratings thresholds in order for Citi to hold third-party funds. Moreover, credit ratings downgrades can have impacts which may not be currently known to Citi or which are not possible to quantify. For example, some entities may have ratings limitations as to their permissible counterparties, of which Citi may or may not be aware. In addition, certain of Citi’s corporate customers and trading counterparties, among other clients, could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi and limit the trading of certain contracts or market instruments with Citi in response to ratings downgrades. Changes in customer and counterparty behavior could impact not only Citi’s funding and liquidity but also the results of operations of certain Citi businesses. For additional information on the potential impact of a reduction in Citi’s or Citibank, N.A.’s credit ratings, see “Capital Resources and Liquidity—Funding and Liquidity—Credit Ratings” above.   LEGAL RISKS Citi Is Subject to Extensive Legal and Regulatory Proceedings, Investigations, and Inquiries That Could Result in Substantial Losses. These Matters Are Often Highly Complex and Slow to Develop, and Results Are Difficult to Predict or Estimate.At any given time, Citi is defending a significant number of legal and regulatory proceedings and is subject to numerous governmental and regulatory examinations, investigations and other inquiries. These proceedings, examinations, investigations and inquiries could result, individually or collectively, in substantial losses. In the wake of the financial crisis of 2007–2009, the frequency with which such proceedings, investigations and inquiries are initiated, and the severity of the remedies sought, have increased substantially, and the global judicial, regulatory and political environment has generally become more hostile to large financial institutions such as Citi. Many of the proceedings, investigations and inquiries involving Citi relating to events before or during the financial crisis have not yet been resolved, and additional proceedings, investigations and inquiries relating to such events may still be commenced. In addition, heightened expectations by regulators and other enforcement authorities for strict compliance could also lead to more regulatory and other enforcement proceedings seeking greater sanctions for financial institutions such as Citi. For example, Citi is currently subject to extensive legal and regulatory inquiries, actions and investigations relating to its historical mortgage-related activities, including claims regarding the accuracy of offering documents for residential mortgage-backed securities and alleged breaches of representation and warranties relating to the sale of mortgage loans or the placement of mortgage loans into securitization trusts (for additional information on representation and warranty matters, see “Managing Global Risk—Credit Risk—Citigroup Residential Mortgages—Representations and Warranties” below). Citi is also subject to extensive legal and regulatory inquiries, actions and investigations relating to, among other things, submissions made by Citi and other panel banks to bodies that publish various interbank offered rates, such as the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR), or other rates or benchmarks. Like other banks with operations in the U.S., Citi is also subject to continuing oversight by the OCC and other bank regulators, and inquiries and investigations by other governmental and regulatory authorities, with respect to its anti-money laundering program. Other banks subject to similar or the same inquiries, actions or investigations have incurred substantial liability in relation to their activities in these areas, including in a few cases criminal convictions or deferred prosecution agreements respecting corporate entities as well as substantial fines and penalties. 66     Moreover, regulatory changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act and other recent regulatory changes—such as the limitations on federal preemption in the consumer arena, the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with its own examination and enforcement authority and the “whistle-blower” provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act—could further increase the number of legal and regulatory proceedings against Citi. In addition, while Citi takes numerous steps to prevent and detect employee misconduct, such as fraud, employee misconduct cannot always be deterred or prevented and could subject Citi to additional liability. All of these inquiries, actions and investigations have resulted in, and will continue to result in, significant time, expense and diversion of management’s attention. In addition, proceedings brought against Citi may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, restitution, disgorgement, injunctions, business improvement orders or other results adverse to it, which could materially and negatively affect Citi’s businesses, financial condition or results of operations, require material changes in Citi’s operations, or cause Citi reputational harm. Moreover, many large claims asserted against Citi are highly complex and slow to develop, and they may involve novel or untested legal theories. The outcome of such proceedings is difficult to predict or estimate until late in the proceedings, which may last several years. In addition, certain settlements are subject to court approval and may not be approved. Although Citi establishes accruals for its legal and regulatory matters according to accounting requirements, the amount of loss ultimately incurred in relation to those matters may be substantially higher than the amounts accrued. For additional information relating to Citi’s legal and regulatory proceedings, see Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. BUSINESS AND OPERATIONAL RISKS The Remaining Assets in Citi Holdings Will Likely Continue to Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Results of Operations and Its Ability to Utilize the Capital Supporting the Remaining Assets in Citi Holdings for More Productive Purposes.As of December 31, 2012, the remaining assets within Citi Holdings constituted approximately 8% of Citigroup’s GAAP assets and 15% of its risk-weighted assets (as defined under current regulatory guidelines). Also as of December 31, 2012, LCL constituted approximately 81% of Citi Holdings assets, of which approximately 73% consisted of legacy U.S. mortgages which had an estimated weighted average life of six years. The pace of the wind-down of the remaining assets within Citi Holdings has slowed as Citi has disposed of certain of the larger businesses within this segment. While Citi’s strategy continues to be to reduce the remaining assets in Citi Holdings as quickly as practicable in an economically rational manner, sales of the remaining assets could largely depend on factors outside of Citi’s control, such as market appetite and buyer funding. Assets that are not sold will continue to be subject to ongoing run-off and paydowns. As a result, Citi Holdings’ remaining assets will likely continue to have a negative impact on Citi’s overall results of operations. Moreover, Citi’s ability to utilize the capital supporting the remaining assets within Citi Holdings and thus use such capital for more productive purposes, including return of capital to shareholders, will also depend on the ultimate pace and level of the wind-down of Citi Holdings.   Citi’s Ability to Return Capital to Shareholders Is Dependent in Part on the CCAR Process and the Results of Required Regulatory Stress Tests and Other Governmental Approvals.In addition to Board of Directors’ approval, any decision by Citi to return capital to shareholders, whether through an increase in its common stock dividend or by initiating a share repurchase program, is dependent in part on regulatory approval, including annual regulatory review of the results of the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process required by the Federal Reserve Board and the supervisory stress tests required under the Dodd-Frank Act. Restrictions on Citi’s ability to increase its common stock dividend or engage in share repurchase programs as a result of these processes has, and could in the future, negatively impact market perceptions of Citi. Citi’s ability to accurately predict or explain to stakeholders the outcome of the CCAR process, and thus address any such market perceptions, is hindered by the Federal Reserve Board’s use of proprietary stress test models. In 2013, for the first time there will also be a requirement for Citi to publish, in March and September, certain stress test results (as prescribed by the Federal Reserve Board) that will be based on Citi’s own stress tests models. The Federal Reserve Board will disclose, in March, certain results based on its proprietary stress test models. Because it is not clear how these proprietary models may differ from Citi’s models, it is likely that Citi’s stress test results using its own models may not be consistent with those eventually disclosed by the Federal Reserve Board, thus potentially leading to additional confusion and impacts to Citi’s perception in the market. In addition, pursuant to Citi’s agreement with the FDIC entered into in connection with exchange offers consummated in July and September 2009, Citi remains subject to dividend and share repurchase restrictions for as long as the FDIC continues to hold any Citi trust preferred securities acquired in connection with the exchange offers. While these restrictions may be waived, they generally prohibit Citi from paying regular cash dividends in excess of $0.01 per share of common stock per quarter or from redeeming or repurchasing any Citi equity securities, which includes its common stock or trust preferred securities. As of February 15, 2013, the FDIC continued to hold approximately $2.225 billion of trust preferred securities issued in connection with the exchange offers (which become redeemable on July 30, 2014).  67    Citi May Be Unable to Reduce Its Level of Expenses as It Expects, and Investments in Its Businesses May Not Be Productive.Citi continues to pursue a disciplined expense-management strategy, including re-engineering, restructuring operations and improving the efficiency of functions. In December 2012, Citi announced a series of repositioning actions designed to further reduce its expenses and improve its efficiency. However, there is no guarantee that Citi will be able to reduce its level of expenses, whether as a result of the recently-announced repositioning actions or otherwise, in the future. Citi’s ultimate expense levels also depend, in part, on factors outside of its control. For example, as a result of the extensive legal and regulatory proceedings and inquiries to which Citi is subject, Citi’s legal and related costs remain elevated, have been, and are likely to continue to be, subject to volatility and are difficult to predict. In addition, expenses incurred in Citi’s foreign entities are subject to foreign exchange volatility. Further, Citi’s ability to continue to reduce its expenses as a result of the wind-down of Citi Holdings will also decline as Citi Holdings represents a smaller overall portion of Citigroup. Moreover, investments Citi has made in its businesses, or may make in the future, may not be as productive as Citi expects or at all. Citi’s Ability to Utilize Its DTAs Will Be Driven by Its Ability to Generate U.S. Taxable Income, Which Could Continue to Be Negatively Impacted by the Wind-Down of Citi Holdings.Citigroup’s total DTAs increased by approximately $3.8 billion in 2012 to $55.3 billion at December 31, 2012, while the time remaining for utilization has shortened, particularly with respect to the foreign tax credit (FTC) component of the DTAs. The increase in the total DTAs in 2012 was due, in large part, to the continued negative impact of Citi Holdings on Citi’s U.S. taxable income. The accounting treatment for DTAs is complex and requires a significant amount of judgment and estimates regarding future taxable earnings in the jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise and available tax planning strategies. Realization of the DTAs will continue to be driven primarily by Citi’s ability to generate U.S. taxable income in the relevant tax carry-forward periods, particularly the FTC carry-forward periods. Citi does not expect a significant reduction in the balance of its net DTAs during 2013. For additional information, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Income Taxes” below and Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Value of Citi’s DTAs Could Be Significantly Reduced If Corporate Tax Rates in the U.S. or Certain State or Foreign Jurisdictions Decline or as a Result of Other Changes in the U.S. Corporate Tax System.Congress and the Obama Administration have discussed decreasing the U.S. corporate tax rate. Similar discussions have taken place in certain state and foreign jurisdictions. While Citi may benefit in some respects from any decrease in corporate tax rates, a reduction in the U.S., state or foreign corporate tax rates could result in a significant decrease in the value of Citi’s DTAs. There have also been recent discussions of more sweeping changes to the U.S. tax system, including changes to the tax treatment of foreign business income. It is uncertain whether or when any such tax reform proposals will be enacted into law, and whether or how they will affect Citi’s DTAs.  Citi Maintains Contractual Relationships with Various Retailers and Merchants Within Its U.S. Credit Card Businesses in NA RCB, and the Failure to Maintain Those Relationships Could Have a Material Negative Impact on the Results of Operations or Financial Condition of Those Businesses.Through its U.S. Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services credit card businesses within North America Regional Consumer Banking (NA RCB), Citi maintains numerous co-branding relationships with third-party retailers and merchants in the ordinary course of business pursuant to which Citi issues credit cards to customers of the retailers or merchants. These agreements provide for shared economics between the parties and ways to increase customer brand loyalty, and generally have a fixed term that may be extended or renewed by the parties or terminated early in certain circumstances. While various mitigating factors could be available in the event of the loss of one or more of these co-branding relationships, such as replacing the retailer or merchant or by Citi’s offering new card products, the results of operations or financial condition of Citi-branded cards or Citi retail services, as applicable, or NA RCB could be negatively impacted, and the impact could be material. These agreements could be terminated due to, among other factors, a breach by Citi of its responsibilities under the applicable co-branding agreement, a breach by the retailer or merchant under the agreement, or external factors outside of either party’s control, including bankruptcies, liquidations, restructurings or consolidations and other similar events that may occur. For example, within NA RCB Citi-branded cards, Citi issues a co-branded credit card product with American Airlines, the Citi-AAdvantage card. As has been widely reported, AMR Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries, including American Airlines, Inc. (collectively, AMR), filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy code in November 2011. On February 14, 2013, AMR and US Airways Group, Inc. announced that the boards of directors of both companies had approved a merger agreement under which the companies would be combined. The merger, which is conditioned upon, among other things, U.S. Bankruptcy Court approval, is expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2013. To date, the ongoing AMR bankruptcy and the merger announcement have not had a material impact on the results of operations for U.S. Citi-branded cards or NA RCB. However, it is not certain when the bankruptcy and merger processes will be resolved, what the outcome will be, whether or over what period the Citi-AAdvantage card program will continue to be maintained and whether the impact of the bankruptcy or merger could be material to the results of operations or financial condition of U.S. Citi-branded cards or NA RCB over time. 68    Citi’s Operational Systems and Networks Have Been, and Will Continue to Be, Subject to an Increasing Risk of Continually Evolving Cybersecurity or Other Technological Risks, Which Could Result in the Disclosure of Confidential Client or Customer Information, Damage to Citi’s Reputation, Additional Costs to Citi, Regulatory Penalties and Financial Losses.A significant portion of Citi’s operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information as well as the monitoring of a large number of complex transactions on a minute-by-minute basis. For example, through its global consumer banking, credit card and Transaction Services businesses, Citi obtains and stores an extensive amount of personal and client-specific information for its retail, corporate and governmental customers and clients and must accurately record and reflect their extensive account transactions. With the evolving proliferation of new technologies and the increasing use of the Internet and mobile devices to conduct financial transactions, large, global financial institutions such as Citi have been, and will continue to be, subject to an increasing risk of cyber incidents from these activities. Although Citi devotes significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade its systems and networks with measures such as intrusion and detection prevention systems and monitoring firewalls to safeguard critical business applications, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can provide absolute security. Citi’s computer systems, software and networks are subject to ongoing cyber incidents such as unauthorized access; loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information); account takeovers; unavailability of service; computer viruses or other malicious code; cyber attacks; and other events. These threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. Additional challenges are posed by external extremist parties, including foreign state actors, in some circumstances as a means to promote political ends. If one or more of these events occurs, it could result in the disclosure of confidential client information, damage to Citi’s reputation with its clients and the market, customer dissatisfaction, additional costs to Citi (such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory penalties, exposure to litigation and other financial losses to both Citi and its clients and customers. Such events could also cause interruptions or malfunctions in the operations of Citi (such as the lack of availability of Citi’s online banking system), as well as the operations of its clients, customers or other third parties. Given Citi’s global footprint and high volume of transactions processed by Citi, certain errors or actions may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified, which would further increase these costs and consequences.   Citi has been subject to intentional cyber incidents from external sources, including (i) denial of service attacks, which attempted to interrupt service to clients and customers; (ii) data breaches, which aimed to obtain unauthorized access to customer account data; and (iii) malicious software attacks on client systems, which attempted to allow unauthorized entrance to Citi’s systems under the guise of a client and the extraction of client data. For example, in 2012 Citi and other U.S. financial institutions experienced distributed denial of service attacks which were intended to disrupt consumer online banking services. While Citi’s monitoring and protection services were able to detect and respond to these incidents before they became significant, they still resulted in certain limited losses in some instances as well as increases in expenditures to monitor against the threat of similar future cyber incidents. There can be no assurance that such cyber incidents will not occur again, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale. In addition, because the methods used to cause cyber attacks change frequently or, in some cases, are not recognized until launched, Citi may be unable to implement effective preventive measures or proactively address these methods. Third parties with which Citi does business may also be sources of cybersecurity or other technological risks. Citi outsources certain functions, such as processing customer credit card transactions, uploading content on customer-facing websites, and developing software for new products and services. These relationships allow for the storage and processing of customer information, by third party hosting of or access to Citi websites, which could result in service disruptions or website defacements, and the potential to introduce vulnerable code, resulting in security breaches impacting Citi customers. While Citi engages in certain actions to reduce the exposure resulting from outsourcing, such as performing onsite security control assessments, limiting third-party access to the least privileged level necessary to perform job functions, and restricting third-party processing to systems stored within Citi’s data centers, ongoing threats may result in unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data or other cyber incidents with increased costs and consequences to Citi such as those discussed above. Furthermore, because financial institutions are becoming increasingly interconnected with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, including through the derivatives provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, Citi has increased exposure to operational failure or cyber attacks through third parties. While Citi maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions including significant self-insured deductibles, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. 69    Citi’s Performance and the Performance of Its Individual Businesses Could Be Negatively Impacted If Citi Is Not Able to Hire and Retain Qualified Employees for Any Reason.Citi’s performance and the performance of its individual businesses is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled employees. Specifically, Citi’s continued ability to compete in its businesses, to manage its businesses effectively and to continue to execute its overall global strategy depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its existing employees. Citi’s ability to attract and retain employees depends on numerous factors, including without limitation, its culture, compensation, the management and leadership of the company as well as its individual businesses, Citi’s presence in the particular market or region at issue and the professional opportunities it offers. The banking industry has and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation, clawback requirements and special taxation. Moreover, given its continued focus on the emerging markets, Citi is often competing for qualified employees in these markets with entities that have a significantly greater presence in the region or are not subject to significant regulatory restrictions on the structure of incentive compensation. If Citi is unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees for any reason, Citi’s performance, including its competitive position, the successful execution of its overall strategy and its results of operations could be negatively impacted. Incorrect Assumptions or Estimates in Citi’s Financial Statements Could Cause Significant Unexpected Losses in the Future, and Changes to Financial Accounting and Reporting Standards Could Have a Material Impact on How Citi Records and Reports Its Financial Condition and Results of Operations.Citi is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing its financial statements under U.S. GAAP, including determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and regulatory exposures and mortgage representation and warranty claims, DTAs and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If Citi’s assumptions or estimates underlying its financial statements are incorrect, Citi could experience unexpected losses, some of which could be significant. Moreover, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) is currently reviewing or proposing changes to several financial accounting and reporting standards that govern key aspects of Citi’s financial statements, including those areas where Citi is required to make assumptions or estimates. For example, the FASB’s financial instruments project could, among other things, significantly change how Citi determines the impairment on financial instruments and accounts for hedges. The FASB has also proposed a new accounting model intended to require earlier recognition of credit losses. The accounting model would require a single “expected credit loss” measurement objective for the recognition of credit losses for all financial instruments, replacing the multiple existing impairment models in U.S. GAAP, which generally require that a loss be “incurred” before it is recognized. For additional information on this proposed new accounting model, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   As a result of changes to financial accounting or reporting standards, whether promulgated or required by the FASB or other regulators, Citi could be required to change certain of the assumptions or estimates it previously used in preparing its financial statements, which could negatively impact how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations generally. In addition, the FASB continues its convergence project with the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) pursuant to which U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) may be converged. Any transition to IFRS could further have a material impact on how Citi records and reports its financial results. For additional information on the key areas for which assumptions and estimates are used in preparing Citi’s financial statements, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below and Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Changes Could Occur in the Method for Determining LIBOR and It Is Unclear How Any Such Changes Could Affect the Value of Debt Securities and Other Financial Obligations Held or Issued by Citi That Are Linked to LIBOR, or How Such Changes Could Affect Citi’s Results of Operations or Financial Condition.As a result of concerns about the accuracy of the calculation of the daily LIBOR, which is currently overseen by the British Bankers’ Association (BBA), the BBA has taken steps to change the process for determining LIBOR by increasing the number of banks surveyed to set LIBOR and to strengthen the oversight of the process. In addition, recommendations relating to the setting and administration of LIBOR were put forth in September 2012, and the U.K. government has announced that it intends to incorporate these recommendations in new legislation. It is uncertain what changes, if any, may be required or made by the U.K. government or other governmental or regulatory authorities in the method for determining LIBOR. Accordingly, it is not certain whether or to what extent any such changes could have an adverse impact on the value of any LIBOR-linked debt securities issued by Citi, or any loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit for which Citi is an obligor. It is also not certain whether or to what extent any such changes would have an adverse impact on the value of any LIBOR-linked securities, loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to Citi or on Citi’s overall financial condition or results of operations.  70     Citi May Incur Significant Losses If Its Risk Management Processes and Strategies Are Ineffective, and Concentration of Risk Increases the Potential for Such Losses.Citi’s independent risk management organization is structured so as to facilitate the management of the principal risks Citi assumes in conducting its activities—credit risk, market risk and operational risk—across three dimensions: businesses, regions and critical products. Credit risk is the potential for financial loss resulting from the failure of a borrower or counterparty to honor its financial or contractual obligations. Market risk encompasses both liquidity risk and price risk. For a discussion of funding and liquidity risk, see “Capital Resources and Liquidity—Funding and Liquidity” and “Risk Factors—Liquidity Risks” above. Price risk losses arise from fluctuations in the market value of trading and non-trading positions resulting from changes in interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity and commodity prices and in their implied volatilities. Operational risk is the risk for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, systems or human factors, or from external events, and includes reputation and franchise risk associated with business practices or market conduct in which Citi is involved. For additional information on each of these areas of risk as well as risk management at Citi, including management review processes and structure, see “Managing Global Risk” below. Managing these risks is made especially challenging within a global and complex financial institution such as Citi, particularly given the complex and diverse financial markets and rapidly evolving market conditions in which Citi operates. Citi employs a broad and diversified set of risk management and mitigation processes and strategies, including the use of various risk models, in analyzing and monitoring these and other risk categories. However, these models, processes and strategies are inherently limited because they involve techniques, including the use of historical data in some circumstances, and judgments that cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome in the markets in which it operates nor can it anticipate the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Citi could incur significant losses if its risk management processes, strategies or models are ineffective in properly anticipating or managing these risks. In addition, concentrations of risk, particularly credit and market risk, can further increase the risk of significant losses. At December 31, 2012, Citi’s most significant concentration of credit risk was with the U.S. government and its agencies, which primarily results from trading assets and investments issued by the U.S. government and its agencies. Citi also routinely executes a high volume of securities, trading, derivative and foreign exchange transactions with counterparties in the financial services sector, including banks, other financial institutions, insurance companies, investment banks and government and central banks. To the extent regulatory or market developments lead to an increased centralization of trading activity through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges, this could increase Citi’s concentration of risk in this sector. Concentrations of risk can limit, and have limited, the effectiveness of Citi’s hedging strategies and have caused Citi to incur significant losses, and they may do so again in the future.   71    MANAGING GLOBAL RISK