RISK FACTORSThe following discussion sets forth what management currently believes could be the most significant regulatory, market and economic, liquidity, legal and business and operational risks and uncertainties that could impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Other risk and uncertainties, including those not currently known to Citi or its management, could also negatively impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Thus, the following should not be considered a complete discussion of all of the risks and uncertainties Citi may face.REGULATORY RISKSCiti Faces Ongoing Significant Regulatory Changes and Uncertainties in the U.S. and Non-U.S. Jurisdictions in Which It Operates That Negatively Impact the Management of Its Businesses, Increase Its Compliance Risks and Costs and Could Adversely Affect Its Results of Operations.Citi continues to be subject to a significant number of regulatory changes and uncertainties both in the U.S. and the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which it operates. These changes and uncertainties emanate not only from financial crisis related reforms, including continued implementation of The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act) in the U.S., but also reform proposals by national financial authorities and international standard setting bodies (such as the Financial Stability Board) as well as individual jurisdictions. The complexities and uncertainties arising from the volume of regulatory changes or proposals, across numerous regulatory bodies and jurisdictions, is further compounded by what appears to be an accelerating urgency to complete reforms and, in some cases, to do so in a manner that is the most advantageous or protectionist to the proposing jurisdiction. The complete scope and form of a number of regulatory initiatives are still being finalized and, even when finalized, will likely require significant interpretation and guidance. Moreover, the heightened regulatory environment has resulted not only in a tendency toward more regulation, but also in some cases toward the most prescriptive regulation as regulatory agencies have often taken a restrictive approach to rulemaking, interpretive guidance, approvals and their general ongoing supervisory or prudential authority. In addition, even when U.S. and international regulatory initiatives overlap, in many instances they have not been undertaken on a coordinated basis and areas of divergence have developed with respect to the scope, interpretation, timing, structure or approach, leading to additional, inconsistent or even conflicting regulations. Ongoing regulatory changes and uncertainties make Citi’s business planning difficult and could require Citi to change its business models or even its organizational structure, all of which could ultimately negatively impact Citi’s strategy and results of operations as well as realization  of its deferred tax assets (DTAs). For example, regulators have proposed applying limits to certain concentrations of risk, such as through single counterparty credit limits, and implementation of such limits could require Citi to restructure client or counterparty relationships and could result in the potential loss of clients. Further, certain regulatory requirements could require Citi to create new subsidiaries in foreign jurisdictions instead of its current branches, create subsidiaries to conduct particular businesses or operations (so-called “subsidiarization”), or impose additional capital or other requirements on branches in certain jurisdictions. This could, among other things, negatively impact Citi’s global capital and liquidity management and overall cost structure. Unless and until there is sufficient regulatory certainty, Citi’s business planning and/or proposed pricing for affected businesses necessarily include assumptions based on possible or proposed rules, requirements or outcomes, any of which could impede Citi’s ability to conduct its businesses effectively or comply with final requirements in a timely manner. Business planning is further complicated by management’s continual need to review and evaluate the impact on Citi’s businesses of ongoing rule proposals, final rules and implementation guidance from numerous regulatory bodies worldwide, within compressed timeframes. In some cases, management’s implementation of a regulatory requirement and assessment of its impact is occurring simultaneously with legal challenges or legislative action to modify or repeal final rules, thus increasing management uncertainty. Moreover, recent regulatory guidance has focused on the need for financial institutions to perform increased due diligence and ongoing monitoring of third party vendor relationships, thus increasing the scope of management involvement and decreasing the efficiency otherwise resulting from these relationships. Citi must also spend significant time and resources managing the increased compliance risks and costs associated with ongoing global regulatory reforms. Citi has established various financial targets for 2015, including efficiency and returns targets, as well as ongoing expense reduction initiatives. Ongoing regulatory changes and uncertainties require management to continually manage Citi’s expenses and potentially reallocate resources, including potentially away from ongoing business investment initiatives. Given the significant number of regulatory reform initiatives and continued uncertainty, it is not possible to determine the ultimate impact to Citi’s overall strategy, competitiveness and results of operations or, in many cases, its individual businesses. Despite the Issuance of Final U.S. Basel III Rules, There Continues to Be Significant Uncertainty Regarding the Numerous Aspects of the Regulatory Capital Requirements Applicable to Citi and the Ultimate Impact of These Requirements on Citi’s Businesses, Products and Results of Operations. 57Although the U.S. banking agencies issued final Basel III rules applicable to Citigroup and its depository institution 58subsidiaries, including Citibank, N.A., during 2013, there continues to be significant uncertainty regarding numerous aspects of these and other regulatory capital requirements applicable to Citi and, as a result, the ultimate impact of these requirements on Citi. Citi’s estimated Basel III ratios and related components are based on its current interpretation, expectations and understanding of the final U.S. Basel III rules and are subject to, among other things, ongoing regulatory review, regulatory approval of Citi’s credit, market and operational Basel III risk models (as well as its market risk models under Basel II.5), additional refinements, modifications or enhancements (whether required or otherwise) to Citi’s models, and further implementation guidance in the U.S. Any modifications or requirements resulting from these ongoing reviews or the continued implementation of Basel III in the U.S. could result in changes in Citi’s risk-weighted assets or other elements involved in the calculation of Citi’s Basel III ratios, which could negatively impact Citi’s capital ratios and its ability to achieve its capital requirements as it projects or as required. Further, because operational risk is measured based not only upon Citi’s historical loss experience but also upon ongoing events in the banking industry generally, Citi’s level of operational risk-weighted assets could remain elevated for the foreseeable future, despite Citi’s continuing efforts to reduce its risk-weighted assets and exposures.In addition, subsequent to the issuance of the final U.S. Basel III rules, the U.S. banking agencies proposed to amend the final U.S. Basel III rules to require the largest U.S. bank holding companies and their insured depository institution subsidiaries, including Citi and Citibank, N.A., to effectively maintain minimum Supplementary Leverage ratios (SLRs) of 5% and 6%, respectively, compared to the minimum 3% required under the final U.S. and Basel Committee Basel III rules. If adopted as proposed, the SLR, which was initially intended only to supplement the risk-based capital ratios, may become the binding regulatory capital constraint facing Citi and Citibank, N.A. In addition, when combined with the expected U.S. Tier 1 Common Capital “global systemically important bank” (G-SIB) surcharge and other capital requirements, Citi and Citibank, N.A. could be subject to higher capital requirements than many of their U.S. and non-U.S. competitors, leading to a potential competitive disadvantage and negative impact on Citi’s businesses and results of operations. Various proposals relating to the future liquidity standards or funding requirements applicable to U.S. financial institutions further contribute to the uncertainty regarding the future capital requirements applicable to Citi. For example, the proposed U.S. Basel III Liquidity Coverage ratio (LCR) rules would require Citi to hold additional high-quality liquid assets; however, this requirement would also serve to increase the denominator of the SLR and, as a result, increase the amount of Tier 1 Capital required to be held by Citi to meet the minimum SLR requirements. The Federal Reserve Board has also indicated it is considering proposals relating to the use of short-term wholesale funding by U.S. financial institutions, particularly securities financing  transactions (SFTs), which could include a capital surcharge based on the institution’s reliance on such funding, and/or increased capital requirements applicable to SFT matched books. As a result of these and other uncertainties arising from the ongoing implementation of Basel III and other current or potential capital requirements on a global basis, Citi’s capital planning and management remains challenging. It is also not possible to determine what the overall impact of these extensive regulatory capital changes will be on Citi’s competitive position (among both domestic and international peers), businesses, product offerings or results of operations. For additional information on the Basel III Rules and other capital and liquidity standards developments and requirements referenced above, see “Liquidity Risks” below and “Capital Resources—Regulatory Capital Standards Developments” above.The Impact to Citi’s Derivatives Businesses and Results of Operations Resulting from the Ongoing Implementation of Derivatives Regulation in the U.S. and Globally Remains Uncertain.The ongoing implementation of derivatives regulations in the U.S. under the Dodd-Frank Act as well as in non-U.S. jurisdictions has impacted, and will continue to substantially impact, the derivatives markets by, among other things: (i) requiring extensive regulatory and public price reporting of derivatives transactions; (ii) requiring a wide range of over-the-counter derivatives to be cleared through recognized clearing facilities and traded on exchanges or exchange-like facilities; (iii) requiring the collection and segregation of collateral for most uncleared derivatives (margin requirements); and (iv) significantly broadening limits on the size of positions that may be maintained in specified derivatives. These market structure reforms have and will likely continue to make trading in many derivatives products more costly, may significantly reduce the liquidity of certain derivatives markets and could diminish customer demand for covered derivatives. However, given the early stage of implementation of these U.S. and global reforms, including the additional rulemaking that may be or is required to occur and the ongoing significant interpretive issues across jurisdictions, the ultimate impact to Citi’s results of operations in its derivatives businesses remains uncertain. For example, in October 2013, certain CFTC rules relating to trading on a swap execution facility (SEF) became effective. As a result, certain non-U.S. trading platforms that do not want to register with the CFTC as a SEF are prohibiting firms with U.S. contacts, such as Citi, from trading on their non-U.S. platforms. This has resulted in some bifurcated client activity in the swaps marketplace, which could negatively impact Citi by reducing its access to non-U.S. platform client activity. Also in October 2013, the CFTC’s mandatory clearing requirements for the overseas branches of Citibank, N.A. became effective, and certain of Citi’s non-U.S. clients have ceased to clear their swaps with Citi given the mandatory requirement. More broadly, under the CFTC’s cross-border guidance, overseas clients who transact their derivatives business with overseas branches of 59U.S. banks, including Citi, could be subject to additional U.S. registration and derivatives requirements, and these clients have expressed an unwillingness to continue to deal with overseas branches of U.S. banks as a result. These and similar issues could disproportionately impact Citi given its global footprint. Further, the European Union continues to finalize its European Market Infrastructure Regulation which would require, among other things, information on all European derivatives transactions be reported to trade repositories and certain counterparties to clear “standardized” derivatives contracts through central counterparties. Regulators in Asia also continue to finalize their derivatives reforms which, to date, have taken a different approach as compared to the EU or the U.S. Most of these non-U.S. reforms will take effect after the reforms in the U.S. and, as a result, it is uncertain to what extent the non-U.S. reforms will impose different, additional or even inconsistent requirements on Citi’s derivatives activities. The Dodd-Frank Act also contains a so-called “push-out” provision that, to date, has generally been interpreted to prevent FDIC-insured depository institutions from dealing in certain equity, commodity and credit-related derivatives. The ultimate scope of this provision and its potential consequences are not certain as rulemaking has not yet been completed. While this push-out provision was to be effective July 2013, U.S. regulators were permitted to grant up to an initial two-year transition period to affected depository institutions, and in June 2013, Citi, like other U.S. depository institutions, received approval for an initial two-year transition period for Citibank, N.A., its primary insured depository institution. Citi currently conducts a substantial portion of its derivatives-dealing activities within and outside the U.S. through Citibank, N.A. The costs of revising customer relationships and modifying the organizational structure of Citi’s businesses or the subsidiaries engaged in these businesses, and the reaction of Citi’s clients to the potential bifurcation of their derivatives portfolios between Citibank, N.A. and another Citi affiliate for pushed-out derivatives, remain unknown. To the extent that certain of Citi’s competitors already conduct these derivatives activities outside of FDIC-insured depository institutions, Citi would be disproportionately impacted by any required restructuring. Moreover, the extent to which Citi’s non-U.S. operations will be impacted by the push-out provision remains unclear, and it is possible that Citi could lose market share in its derivatives business or client relationships in jurisdictions where foreign bank competitors can operate without the same constraints. While the implementation and effectiveness of individual derivatives reforms may not in every case be significant, the cumulative impact of these reforms is uncertain and could be material to Citi’s results of operations and competitiveness in these businesses.In addition, numerous aspects of the new derivatives regime require extensive compliance systems and processes to be put in place and maintained, including electronic recordkeeping, real-time public transaction reporting and  external business conduct requirements (e.g., required swap counterparty disclosures). These requirements have necessitated the installation of extensive technological, operational and compliance infrastructure, and Citi’s failure to effectively maintain such systems could subject it to increased compliance costs and regulatory and reputational risks. Moreover, these new derivatives-related systems and infrastructure will likely become the basis on which institutions such as Citi compete for clients. To the extent that Citi’s connectivity, product offerings or services for clients in these businesses is deficient, this could negatively impact Citi’s competitiveness and results of operations in these businesses. It Is Uncertain What Impact the Restrictions on Proprietary Trading Activities under the Volcker Rule Will Have on Citi’s Global Market-Making Businesses and Results of Operations, and Implementation of the Final Rules Subjects Citi to Compliance Risks and Costs. The “Volcker Rule” provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are intended in part to prohibit the proprietary trading activities of institutions such as Citi. On December 10, 2013, the five regulatory agencies required to adopt rules to implement the Volcker Rule adopted a final rule. Although the rules implementing the Volcker Rule have been finalized, and the conformance period has been extended to July 2015, the final rules will require extensive regulatory interpretation and supervisory oversight, including coordination of this interpretive guidance and oversight among the five regulatory agencies implementing the rules. As a result, the degree to which Citi’s market-making activities will be permitted to continue in their current form, and the potential impact to Citi’s results of operations from these businesses, remains uncertain. In addition, the final rules and restrictions imposed will affect Citi’s trading activities globally and, thus, will impact it disproportionately in comparison to foreign financial institutions that will not be subject to the Volcker Rule with respect to all of their activities outside of the U.S., further increasing the uncertainty of the impact to Citi’s results of operations.While the final rules contain exceptions for market-making, underwriting, risk-mitigating hedging, and certain transactions on behalf of customers and activities in certain asset classes, and require that certain of these activities be designed not to encourage or reward “proprietary risk taking,” it remains unclear how these exceptions will be interpreted and administered. Absent further regulatory guidance, Citi is required to make certain assumptions as to the degree to which Citi’s activities in these areas will be permitted to continue in their current form. If these assumptions are not accurate, Citi could be subject to increased compliance risks and costs. Moreover, the final rules require an extensive compliance regime for the “permitted” activities under the Volcker Rule, including documentation of historical trading activities with clients, regulatory reporting, recordkeeping and similar requirements, with certain of these requirements effective in July 2014. If Citi’s implementation of this compliance 60regime is not consistent with regulatory expectations, this could further increase its compliance risks and costs.As in other areas of ongoing regulatory reform, alternative proposals for the regulation of proprietary trading are developing in non-U.S. jurisdictions, leading to overlapping or potentially conflicting regimes. For example, in the EU, the “Liikanen Report” on bank structural reform has been reflected in the recent European Commission proposal (the so-called “Barnier Proposal”), which would prohibit proprietary trading by in-scope credit institutions and banking groups, such as certain of Citi’s EU branches, and potentially require the mandatory separation of certain trading activities into a trading entity legally, economically and operationally separate from the legal entity holding the banking activities of a firm.It is likely that, given Citi’s worldwide operations, some form of these or other proposals for the regulation of proprietary trading will eventually be applicable to a portion of Citi’s operations. While the Volcker Rule and these non-U.S. proposals are intended to address similar concerns— separating the perceived risks of proprietary trading and certain other investment banking activities in order not to affect more traditional banking and retail activities—they would do so under different structures, which could result in inconsistent regulatory regimes and additional compliance risks and costs for Citi in light of its global activities.Requirements in the U.S. and Non-U.S. Jurisdictions to Facilitate the Future Orderly Resolution of Large Financial Institutions Could Require Citi to Restructure or Reorganize Its Businesses or Change Its Capital or Funding Structure in Ways That Could Negatively Impact Its Operations or Strategy. Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act requires Citi to prepare and submit annually a plan for the orderly resolution of Citigroup (the bank holding company) and its significant legal entities under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or other applicable insolvency law in the event of future material financial distress or failure. Citi is also required to prepare and submit an annual resolution plan for its primary insured depository institution subsidiary, Citibank, N.A., and to demonstrate how Citibank is adequately protected from the risks presented by non-bank affiliates. These plans must include information on resolution strategy, major counterparties and interdependencies, among other things, and require substantial effort, time and cost across all of Citi’s businesses and geographies. These resolution plans are subject to review by the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC. Citi submitted its resolution plan for 2013, including the resolution plan for Citibank, N.A., in September 2013.If the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC both determine that Citi’s resolution plan is not “credible” (which, although not defined, is generally believed to mean the regulators do not believe the plan is feasible or would otherwise allow the regulators to resolve Citi in a way that protects systemically important functions without severe systemic disruption), and Citi does not remedy the identified deficiencies in the plan within the required time period, Citi could be required to restructure or reorganize businesses,  legal entities, operational systems and/or intracompany transactions in ways that could negatively impact its operations and strategy, or be subject to restrictions on growth. Citi could also eventually be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, or be required to divest certain assets or operations. In addition, other jurisdictions, such as the U.K., have requested or are expected to request resolution plans from financial institutions, including Citi, and the requirements and timing relating to these plans are or are expected to be different from the U.S. requirements and from each other. Responding to these additional requests will require additional effort, time and cost, and regulatory review and requirements in these jurisdictions could be in addition to, or conflict with, changes required by Citi’s regulators in the U.S. Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act grants the FDIC the authority, under certain circumstances, to resolve systemically important financial institutions, including Citi. In connection with this authority, in December 2013, the FDIC released a notice describing its preferred single point of entry strategy for resolving systemically important financial institutions. In furtherance of this strategy, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that it expects to propose minimum levels of unsecured long-term debt required for bank holding companies, as well as guidelines defining the terms or composition of qualifying debt instruments, to ensure that adequate resources are available at the holding company to resolve a systemically important financial institution if necessary. To the extent that these future requirements differ from Citi’s current funding profile, Citi may need to increase its aggregate long-term debt levels and/or alter the composition and terms of its debt, which could lead to increased costs of funds and have a negative impact on its net interest revenue, among other potential impacts. Additionally, if any final rules require compliance on an accelerated timeline, the resulting increased issuance volume may further increase Citi’s cost of funds. Furthermore, Citi could be at a competitive disadvantage versus financial institutions that are not subject to such minimum debt requirements, such as non-regulated financial intermediaries, smaller financial institutions and entities in jurisdictions with less onerous or no such requirements.Additional Regulations with Respect to Securitizations Will Impose Additional Costs and May Prevent Citi from Performing Certain Roles in Securitizations.Citi plays a variety of roles in asset securitization transactions, including acting as underwriter of asset-backed securities, depositor of the underlying assets into securitization vehicles, trustee to securitization vehicles and counterparty to securitization vehicles under derivative contracts. The Dodd-Frank Act contains a number of provisions that affect securitizations. These provisions, which in some cases will require multi-regulatory agency implementation and will largely be applicable across asset classes, include a prohibition on securitization participants engaging in transactions that would involve a material 61conflict of interest with investors in the securitization and, in certain transactions, a retention requirement by securitizers of an unhedged exposure to at least 5% of the economic risk of the securitized assets. Regulations implementing these provisions have been proposed but in many cases have not yet been adopted.  The SEC also has proposed additional extensive regulation of both publicly and privately offered securitization transactions through revisions to the registration, disclosure and reporting requirements for asset-backed securities and other structured finance products. Moreover, the final U.S. Basel III capital rules will increase the capital required to be held by Citi against various exposures to securitizations. The cumulative effect of these extensive regulatory changes, as well as other potential future regulatory changes, cannot currently be assessed. It is likely, however, that these various measures will increase the costs or decrease the attractiveness of executing certain securitization transactions, and could effectively limit Citi’s overall volume of, and the role Citi may play in, securitizations and make it impractical for Citi to execute certain types of securitization transactions it previously executed. As a result, these effects could impair Citi’s ability to continue to earn income from these transactions or could hinder Citi’s ability to use such transactions to hedge risks, reduce exposures or reduce assets with adverse risk-weighting in its businesses, and those consequences could affect the conduct of these businesses. In addition, certain sectors of the securitization markets, particularly residential mortgage-backed securitizations, have been inactive or experienced dramatically diminished transaction volumes since the financial crisis. The impact of various regulatory reform measures could adversely impact any future recovery of these sectors of the securitization markets and, thus, the opportunities for Citi to participate in securitization transactions in such sectors.MARKET AND ECONOMIC RISKSThe Continued Uncertainty Relating to the Sustainability and Pace of Economic Recovery in the U.S. and Globally, Including in the Emerging Markets, Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Businesses and Results of Operations. Moreover, Any Significant Global Economic Downturn or Disruption, Including a Significant Decline in Global Trade Volumes, Could Materially and Adversely Impact Citi’s Businesses, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.  Citi’s businesses have been, and could continue to be, negatively impacted by the uncertainty surrounding the sustainability and pace of economic recovery in the U.S., as well as globally. Fiscal and monetary actions taken by U.S. and non-U.S. government and regulatory authorities to spur economic growth or otherwise, including by maintaining or increasing interest rates, can also impact Citi’s businesses and results of operations. For example, changing expectations regarding the Federal Reserve Board’s tapering of quantitative easing has impacted market and customer activity as well as trading volumes which has negatively  impacted the results of operations for Securities and Banking, and could continue to do so in the future.Additionally, given its global focus, Citi could be disproportionately impacted as compared to its competitors by any impact of government or regulatory policies or economic conditions in the international and/or emerging markets (which Citi generally defines as the markets in Asia (other than Japan, Australia and New Zealand), the Middle East, Africa and central and eastern European countries in EMEA and the markets in Latin America). Countries such as India, Singapore, Hong Kong, Brazil and China, each of which are part of Citi’s emerging markets strategy, have recently experienced uncertainty over the potential impact of further tapering by the Federal Reserve Board and/or the extent of future economic growth. Actual or perceived impacts or a slowdown in growth in these and other emerging markets could negatively impact Citi’s businesses and results of operations. Further, if a particular country’s economic situation were to deteriorate below a certain level, U.S. regulators could impose mandatory loan loss and other reserve requirements on Citi, which could negatively impact its earnings, perhaps significantly. Moreover, if a severe global economic downturn or other major economic disruption were to occur, including a significant decline in global trade volumes, Citi would likely experience substantial loan and other losses and be required to significantly increase its loan loss reserves, among other impacts. A global trade disruption that results in a permanently reduced level of trade volumes and increased costs of global trade, whether as a result of a prolonged “trade war” or some other reason, could significantly impact trade financing activities, certain trade dependent economies (such as the emerging markets in Asia), and certain industries heavily dependent on trade, among other things. Given Citi’s global strategy and focus on the emerging markets, such a downturn and decrease in global trade volumes could materially and adversely impact Citi’s businesses, results of operation and financial condition, particularly as compared to its competitors. This could include, among other things, the potential that a portion of any such losses would not be tax benefitted, given the current environment. Concerns About the Level of U.S. Government Debt and a Downgrade (or a Further Downgrade) of the U.S. Government Credit Rating Could Negatively Impact Citi’s Businesses, Results of Operations, Capital, Funding and Liquidity.Concerns about the overall level of U.S. government debt and/or a U.S. government default, as well as uncertainty relating to actions that may or may not be taken to address these and related issues, have adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, U.S. and global financial markets, economic conditions and Citi’s businesses and results of operations. The credit rating agencies have also expressed concerns about these issues and have taken actions to downgrade and/or place the long-term sovereign credit rating of the U.S. government on negative outlook. A future downgrade (or 62further downgrade) of U.S. debt obligations or U.S. government-related obligations, or concerns that such a downgrade might occur, could negatively impact Citi’s ability to obtain funding collateralized by such obligations and the pricing of such funding, as well as the pricing or availability of Citi’s funding as a U.S. financial institution, among other impacts. Any further downgrade could also have a negative impact on U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions generally and, as a result, could have a negative impact on Citi’s businesses, results of operations, capital, funding and liquidity.Citi’s Extensive Global Network Subjects It to Various International and Emerging Markets Risks as well as Increased Compliance and Regulatory Risks and Costs.During 2013, international revenues accounted for approximately 59% of Citi’s total revenues. In addition, revenues from the emerging markets accounted for approximately 41% of Citi’s total revenues in 2013.Citi’s extensive global network subjects it to a number of risks associated with international and emerging markets, including, among others, sovereign volatility, political events, foreign exchange controls, limitations on foreign investment, sociopolitical instability, fraud, nationalization, closure of branches or subsidiaries and confiscation of assets. For example, Citi operates in several countries, such as Argentina and Venezuela, with strict foreign exchange controls that limit its ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars and/or transfer funds outside the country. In such cases, Citi could be exposed to a risk of loss in the event that the local currency devalues as compared to the U.S. dollar (see “Managing Global Risk—Cross-Border Risk” below). There have also been instances of political turmoil and other instability in some of the countries in which Citi operates, including in certain countries in the Middle East and Africa, to which Citi has responded by transferring assets and relocating staff members to more stable jurisdictions. Similar incidents in the future could place Citi’s staff and operations in danger and may result in financial losses, some significant, including nationalization of Citi’s assets.Citi’s extensive global operations also increase its compliance and regulatory risks and costs. For example, Citi’s operations in emerging markets, including facilitating cross-border transactions on behalf of its clients, subject it to higher compliance risks under U.S. regulations primarily focused on various aspects of global corporate activities, such as anti-money-laundering regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These risks can be more acute in less developed markets and thus require substantial investment in compliance infrastructure or could result in a reduction in certain of Citi’s business activities. In addition, any failure by Citi to comply with applicable U.S. regulations, as well as the regulations in the countries and markets in which it operates as a result of its global footprint, could result in fines, penalties, injunctions or other similar restrictions, any of which could negatively impact Citi’s earnings and its reputation. Citi also provides a wide range of financial products and services to the U.S. and other governments, to  multi-national corporations and other businesses, and to prominent individuals and families around the world. The actions of these clients involving the use of Citi products or services could result in an adverse impact on Citi, including adverse regulatory and reputational impact.There Continues to Be Uncertainty Relating to Ongoing Economic and Fiscal Issues in the Eurozone, Including the Potential Outcomes That Could Occur and the Impact Those Outcomes Could Have on Citi’s Businesses, Results of Operations or Financial Condition.Several European countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain (GIIPS), have been the subject of credit deterioration due to weaknesses in their economic and fiscal situations. Concerns have been raised, both within the European Monetary Union (EMU) as well as internationally, as to the financial, political and legal effectiveness of measures taken to date, the ability of these countries to adhere to any required austerity, reform or similar measures and the potential impact of these measures on economic growth or recession, as well as deflation, in the region. There have also been concerns that these issues could lead to a partial or complete break-up of the EMU. The exit of one or more member countries from the EMU could result in certain obligations relating to the exiting country being redenominated from the Euro to a new country currency. Redenomination could be accompanied by immediate revaluation of the new currency as compared to the Euro and the U.S. dollar, the extent of which would depend on the particular facts and circumstances. Any such redenomination/revaluation could cause significant legal and other uncertainty with respect to outstanding obligations of counterparties and debtors in any exiting country, whether sovereign or otherwise, and could lead to complex, lengthy litigation. Redenomination/revaluation could also be accompanied by the imposition of exchange and/or capital controls, required functional currency changes and “deposit flight.” These ongoing uncertainties have caused, and could in the future cause, disruptions in the global financial markets and concerns regarding potential impacts to the global economy generally, particularly if sovereign debt defaults, significant bank failures or defaults and/or a partial or complete break-up of the EMU were to occur. These ongoing issues, or a worsening of these issues, could negatively impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition, particularly given its global footprint and strategy, both directly through its own exposures as well as indirectly. For example, Citi has previously experienced widening of its credit spreads and thus increased costs of funding due to concerns about its Eurozone exposure. In addition, U.S. regulators could impose mandatory loan loss and other reserve requirements on U.S. financial institutions, including Citi, if a particular country’s economic situation deteriorates below a certain level, which could negatively impact Citi’s earnings, perhaps significantly. 63LIQUIDITY RISKSThere Continues to Be Significant Uncertainty Regarding the Future Quantitative Liquidity Requirements Applicable to Citi and the Ultimate Impact of These Requirements on Citi’s Liquidity Planning, Management and Funding. In 2010, the Basel Committee introduced an international framework for new Basel III quantitative liquidity requirements, including a Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and a Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) and, in January 2013, the Basel Committee adopted final Basel III LCR rules (for additional information on Citi’s estimated LCR as of December 31, 2013, as calculated under the final Basel III LCR rules, as well as the Basel Committee’s NSFR framework, see “Managing Global Risk—Market Risk—Funding and Liquidity” below). In October 2013, the U.S. banking agencies proposed rules with respect to the U.S. Basel III LCR. The proposed U.S. Basel III LCR is more stringent than the final Basel III LCR in several areas, including a (i) narrower definition of “high-quality liquid assets” (HQLA), particularly with respect to investment grade credit, (ii) potentially more severe standard for calculating net cash outflows under the LCR and (iii) shorter timeline for implementation (full compliance with the U.S. Basel III LCR by January 2017, versus January 2019 for the Basel III LCR). With respect to the computation of net cash outflows, the U.S. Basel III LCR proposal prescribes more conservative outflow assumptions for certain types of funding sources (in particular, for deposits) as compared to the final Basel III LCR rules. The U.S. Basel III LCR proposal would also require covered firms, including Citi and Citibank, N.A., to adopt a daily net cash flow calculation (the dollar amount on the day within a 30-day stress period that has the highest amount of net cumulative cash outflows) as opposed to the Basel Committee cumulative calculation at the end of the 30-day period. Covered firms would also be required to use the most conservative assumptions regarding when an inflow or outflow would occur (i.e., for instruments or transactions with no or variable maturity dates, the earliest possible date for outflows (e.g., day one) and the latest possible date for inflows (e.g., day 30)). There continues to be significant uncertainty across the industry regarding the interpretation and implementation of the net cash outflows provisions of the U.S. Basel III LCR proposal. Depending on how these interpretive and other issues are resolved, Citi’s Basel III LCR under the proposed U.S. rules could decrease, perhaps significantly, as compared to Citi’s estimated Basel III LCR under the final Basel III rules. The implementation of the proposed U.S. Basel III LCR could also impact the way Citi manages its liquidity position, including the composition of its liquid assets and its liabilities, as well as require it to implement and maintain extensive compliance policies, procedures and systems to determine the composition and amount of HQLA on a daily basis. Regarding the Basel III NSFR, in January 2014, the Basel Committee issued a revised framework for the calculation of a financial institution’s NSFR. This  framework remains subject to comment and is expected to be followed by a proposal by the U.S. banking agencies to implement the Basel III NSFR in the U.S. In addition to the LCR and NSFR, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated it is considering various initiatives to limit short-term funding risks, including further increases in the liquidity requirements applicable to securities financing transactions (SFTs), such as requiring larger liquidity buffers for firms with large amounts of SFTs, and/or mandatory margin or haircut requirements on SFTs. As a result, there is significant uncertainty regarding the calculation, scope, implementation and timing of Citi’s future liquidity standards and requirements, and the ultimate impact of these requirements on Citi, its liquidity planning, management and funding. While uncertain, Citi could be required to increase the level of its deposits and debt funding, which could increase its Consolidated Balance Sheet and negatively impact its net interest revenue. Moreover, similar to the U.S. Basel III LCR proposal, to the extent other jurisdictions propose or adopt quantitative liquidity requirements that differ from the Basel Committee’s or the U.S. requirements, Citi could be at a competitive disadvantage because of its global footprint or could be required to meet different minimum liquidity standards in some or all of the jurisdictions in which it operates. For a discussion of the potential negative impacts to Citi’s ability to meet its regulatory capital requirements as a result of certain of these liquidity proposals, see “Regulatory Risks” above.The Maintenance of Adequate Liquidity and Funding Depends on Numerous Factors, Including Those Outside of Citi’s Control, Such as Market Disruptions and Increases in Citi’s Credit Spreads.As a global financial institution, adequate liquidity and sources of funding are essential to Citi’s businesses. Citi’s liquidity and sources of funding can be significantly and negatively impacted by factors it cannot control, such as general disruptions in the financial markets, governmental fiscal and monetary policies, or negative investor perceptions of Citi’s creditworthiness. Market perception of sovereign default risks can also lead to inefficient money markets and capital markets, which could further impact Citi’s availability and cost of funding.In addition, Citi’s cost and ability to obtain deposits, secured funding and long-term unsecured funding from the credit and capital markets are directly related to its credit spreads. Changes in credit spreads constantly occur and are market-driven, including both external market factors and factors specific to Citi, and can be highly volatile. Citi’s credit spreads may also be influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to Citi’s long-term debt, which are also impacted by these external and Citi-specific factors. Moreover, Citi’s ability to obtain funding may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to access the markets at the same time, or if market appetite is reduced, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. In addition, clearing organizations, 64regulators, clients and financial institutions with which Citi interacts may exercise the right to require additional collateral based on these market perceptions or market conditions, which could further impair Citi’s access to and cost of funding.As a holding company, Citi relies on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividends as well as to satisfy its debt and other obligations. Several of Citi’s subsidiaries are subject to capital adequacy or other regulatory or contractual restrictions on their ability to provide such payments. Limitations on the payments that Citi receives from its subsidiaries could also impact its liquidity. The Credit Rating Agencies Continuously Review the Ratings of Citi and Certain of Its Subsidiaries, and Reductions in Citi’s or Its More Significant Subsidiaries’ Credit Ratings Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Funding and Liquidity Due to Reduced Funding Capacity and Increased Funding Costs, Including Derivatives Triggers That Could Require Cash Obligations or Collateral Requirements.The credit rating agencies, such as Fitch, Moody’s and S&P, continuously evaluate Citi and certain of its subsidiaries, and their ratings of Citi’s and its more significant subsidiaries’ long-term/senior debt and short-term/ commercial paper, as applicable, are based on a number of factors, including standalone financial strength, as well as factors not entirely within the control of Citi and its subsidiaries, such as the agencies’ proprietary rating agency methodologies and assumptions, the rating agencies’ “government support uplift” assumptions, and conditions affecting the financial services industry and markets generally.Citi and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their current respective ratings. A ratings downgrade by Fitch, Moody’s or S&P could negatively impact Citi’s ability to access the capital markets and other sources of funds as well as the costs of those funds, and its ability to maintain certain deposits. A ratings downgrade could also have a negative impact on Citi’s funding and liquidity due to reduced funding capacity, including derivative triggers, which could take the form of cash obligations and collateral requirements. In addition, a ratings downgrade could also have a negative impact on other funding sources, such as secured financing and other margined transactions for which there are no explicit triggers, as well as on contractual provisions which contain minimum ratings thresholds in order for Citi to hold third-party funds.Moreover, credit ratings downgrades can have impacts which may not be currently known to Citi or which are not possible to quantify. For example, some entities may have ratings limitations as to their permissible counterparties, of which Citi may or may not be aware. In addition, certain of Citi’s corporate customers and trading counterparties, among other clients, could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi and limit the trading of certain contracts or market instruments with Citi in response to ratings downgrades. Changes in customer and counterparty behavior could impact not only Citi’s funding and liquidity but also the  results of operations of certain Citi businesses. For additional information on the potential impact of a reduction in Citi’s or Citibank, N.A.’s credit ratings, see “Managing Global Risk—Market Risk—Funding and Liquidity—Credit Ratings” below.LEGAL RISKSCiti Is Subject to Extensive Legal and Regulatory Proceedings, Investigations, and Inquiries That Could Result in Substantial Losses. These Matters Are Often Highly Complex and Slow to Develop, and Results Are Difficult to Predict or Estimate.At any given time, Citi is defending a significant number of legal and regulatory proceedings and is subject to numerous governmental and regulatory examinations, investigations and other inquiries. These proceedings, examinations, investigations and inquiries could result, individually or collectively, in substantial losses.In the wake of the financial crisis of 2007-2009, the frequency with which such proceedings, investigations and inquiries are initiated, and the severity of the remedies sought (and in some cases obtained), have increased substantially, and the global judicial, regulatory and political environment has generally become more hostile to large financial institutions such as Citi. Many of the proceedings, investigations and inquiries involving Citi relating to events before or during the financial crisis have not yet been resolved, and additional proceedings, investigations and inquiries relating to such events may still be commenced. In addition, heightened expectations of the financial services industry by regulators and other enforcement authorities have led to renewed scrutiny of long-standing industry practices, and this heightened scrutiny could lead to more regulatory or other enforcement proceedings. The complexity of the federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes in the U.S., coupled with the global scope of Citi’s operations and the increasing aggressiveness of the regulatory environment worldwide, also means that a single event may give rise to a large number of overlapping investigations and regulatory proceedings, either by multiple federal and state agencies in the U.S. or by multiple regulators and other governmental entities in different jurisdictions.For example, Citi is currently subject to extensive legal and regulatory inquiries, actions and investigations relating to its historical mortgage-related activities, including claims regarding the accuracy of offering documents for residential mortgage-backed securities and alleged breaches of representation and warranties relating to the sale of mortgage loans or the placement of mortgage loans into securitization trusts. Citi is also subject to extensive legal and regulatory inquiries, actions and investigations relating to, among other things, Citi’s contribution to, or trading in products linked to, rates or benchmarks. These rates and benchmarks may relate to interest rates (such as the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or ISDAFIX), foreign exchange rates (such as the WM/Reuters fix), or other prices. Like other banks with operations in the U.S., Citi is also subject to 65continuing oversight by the OCC and other bank regulators, and inquiries and investigations by other governmental and regulatory authorities, with respect to its anti-money laundering program. Other institutions subject to similar or the same inquiries, actions or investigations as those above have incurred substantial liability in relation to their activities in these areas, including in a few cases criminal convictions or deferred prosecution agreements respecting corporate entities as well as substantial fines and penalties. Moreover, regulatory changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act and other recent regulatory changes - such as the limitations on federal preemption in the consumer arena, the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with its own examination and enforcement authority and enhanced consumer protections globally, as well as the “whistle-blower” provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act - could further increase the number of legal and regulatory proceedings against Citi. In addition, while Citi takes numerous steps to prevent and detect employee misconduct, such as fraud, employee misconduct cannot always be deterred or prevented and could subject Citi to additional liability or losses.These matters have resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, significant time, expense and diversion of management’s attention. In addition, they may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, restitution, disgorgement, injunctions, business improvement orders or other results adverse to it, which could materially and negatively affect Citi’s businesses, business practices, financial condition or results of operations, require material changes in Citi’s operations, or cause Citi reputational harm. Moreover, many large claims asserted against Citi are highly complex and slow to develop, and they may involve novel or untested legal theories. The outcome of such proceedings is difficult to predict or estimate until late in the proceedings, which may last several years. In addition, certain settlements are subject to court approval and may not be approved. Although Citi establishes accruals for its legal and regulatory matters according to accounting requirements, the amount of loss ultimately incurred in relation to those matters may be substantially higher than the amounts accrued. For additional information relating to Citi’s legal and regulatory proceedings, see Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.BUSINESS AND OPERATIONAL RISKSCiti’s Results of Operations Could Be Negatively Impacted as Its Revolving Home Equity Lines of Credit Begin to “Reset.”As of December 31, 2013, Citi’s home equity loan portfolio of approximately $31.6 billion included approximately $18.9 billion of home equity lines of credit that were still within their revolving period and had not commenced amortization, or “reset” (Revolving HELOCs). Of these Revolving HELOCs, approximately 72% will commence amortization during the period of 2015-2017. Before commencing amortization, Revolving HELOC borrowers are required to pay only interest on their loans.  Upon amortization, these borrowers will be required to pay both interest, typically at a variable rate, and principal that amortizes over 20 years, rather than the typical 30-year amortization. As a result, Citi’s customers with Revolving HELOCs that reset could experience “payment shock” due to the higher required payments on the loans. Increases in interest rates could further increase these payments, given the variable nature of the interest rates on these loans post-reset. Based on the limited number of Citi’s Revolving HELOCs that have reset as of December 31, 2013, Citi has experienced a higher 30+ days past due delinquency rate on its amortizing home equity loans as compared to its total outstanding home equity loan portfolio (amortizing and non-amortizing). These resets have generally occurred during a period of declining interest rates, which Citi believes has likely reduced the overall payment shock to borrowers. While Citi continues to review its options, increasing interest rates, stricter lending criteria and borrower loan-to-value positions could limit Citi’s ability to reduce or mitigate this reset risk going forward. Accordingly, as these loans begin to reset, Citi could experience higher delinquency rates and increased loan loss reserves and net credit losses in future periods, which could be significant and would negatively impact its results of operations. For additional information on Citi’s Revolving HELOCs portfolio, see “Managing Global Risk—Credit Risk—North America Consumer Mortgage Lending” below.Citi’s Ability to Return Capital to Shareholders Substantially Depends on the CCAR Process and the Results of Required Regulatory Stress Tests.In addition to Board of Directors’ approval, any decision by Citi to return capital to shareholders, whether through an increase in its common stock dividend or through a share repurchase program, substantially depends on regulatory approval, including through the annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process required by the Federal Reserve Board and the supervisory stress tests required under the Dodd-Frank Act. Restrictions on Citi’s ability to return capital to shareholders as a result of these processes has negatively impacted market perceptions of Citi, and could do so in the future. Citi’s ability to accurately predict or explain to stakeholders the outcome of the CCAR process, and thus address any such market perceptions, may be complicated by the Federal Reserve Board’s evolving criteria employed in its overall aggregate assessment of Citi. The Federal Reserve Board’s assessment of Citi is conducted not only by using the Board’s proprietary stress test models, but also a number of qualitative factors, including a detailed assessment of Citi’s “capital adequacy process,” as defined by the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board has stated that it expects leading capital adequacy practices will continue to evolve and will likely be determined by the Federal Reserve Board each year as a result of the Board’s cross-firm review of capital plan submissions. Similarly, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that, as part of its stated goal to continually evolve its annual 66stress testing requirements, several parameters of the annual stress testing process may be altered from time to time, including the severity of the stress test scenario, Federal Reserve Board modeling of Citi’s balance sheet and the addition of components deemed important by the Federal Reserve Board (e.g., a counterparty failure). These parameter alterations are difficult to predict and may limit Citi’s ability to return capital to shareholders and address perceptions about Citi in the market. Because it is not clear how the Federal Reserve Board’s proprietary stress test models and qualitative assessment may differ from the modeling techniques and capital planning practices employed by Citi, it is likely that Citi’s stress test results (using its own models, estimation methodologies and processes) may not be consistent with those disclosed by the Federal Reserve Board, thus potentially leading to additional confusion and impacts to Citi’s perception in the market.Citi’s Ability to Achieve Its 2015 Financial Targets Will Depend in Part on the Successful Achievement of Its Execution Priorities. In March 2013, Citi established certain financial targets for 2015. Citi’s ability to achieve these targets will depend in part on the successful achievement of its execution priorities, including: efficient resource allocation, including disciplined expense management; a continued focus on the wind-down of Citi Holdings and getting Citi Holdings to “break even”; and utilization of its DTAs (see below). Citi’s ability to achieve its targets will also depend on factors it cannot control, such as ongoing regulatory changes and macroeconomic conditions. While Citi continues to take actions to achieve its execution priorities, there is no guarantee that Citi will be successful. Citi continues to pursue its disciplined expense-management strategy, including re-engineering, restructuring operations and improving efficiency. However, there is no guarantee that Citi will be able to reduce its level of expenses, as a result of announced repositioning actions, efficiency initiatives, or otherwise. Citi’s expenses also depend, in part, on factors outside of its control. For example, Citi is subject to extensive legal and regulatory proceedings and inquiries, and its legal and related costs remain elevated. Moreover, investments Citi has made in its businesses, or may make in the future, may not be as productive or effective as Citi expects or at all. In addition, while Citi has made significant progress in reducing the assets (including risk-weighted assets) in Citi Holdings, the pace of the wind-down of the remaining assets has slowed as Citi has disposed of many of the larger businesses within this segment and the remaining assets largely consist of legacy U.S. mortgages with an estimated weighted average life of six years. While Citi’s strategy continues to be to reduce the remaining assets in Citi Holdings as quickly as practicable in an economically rational manner, sales of the remaining larger businesses could largely depend on factors outside of Citi’s control, such as market appetite and buyer funding, and the remaining assets will largely continue to be subject to ongoing run-off and opportunistic sales. As a result, Citi  Holdings’ remaining assets could continue to have a negative impact on Citi’s overall results of operations. Moreover, Citi’s ability to utilize the capital supporting the remaining assets within Citi Holdings and thus use such capital for more productive purposes, including return of capital to shareholders, will also depend on the ultimate pace and level of the wind-down of Citi Holdings.Citi’s Ability to Utilize Its DTAs, and Thus Reduce the Negative Impact of the DTAs on Citi’s Regulatory Capital, Will Be Driven by Its Ability to Generate U.S. Taxable Income.At December 31, 2013, Citi’s net DTAs were $52.8 billion, of which approximately $41.9 billion and $40.6 billion were not included in Citi’s regulatory capital, due to either disallowance (deduction) or permitted exclusion, under current regulatory capital guidelines and the Final Basel III Rules, respectively. In addition, of the net DTAs as of year-end 2013, approximately $19.6 billion related to foreign tax credits (FTCs). The carry-forward utilization period for FTCs is 10 years and represents the most time-sensitive component of Citi’s DTAs. Of the FTCs at year-end, approximately $4.7 billion expire in 2017, $5.2 billion expire in 2018 and the remaining $9.7 billion expire over the period of 2019-2023. Citi must utilize any FTCs generated in the then-current year prior to utilizing any carry-forward FTCs. For additional information on Citi’s DTAs, including the FTCs, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Income Taxes” below and Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.The accounting treatment for realization of DTAs, including FTCs, is complex and requires a significant amount of judgment and estimates regarding future taxable earnings in the jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise and available tax planning strategies. Citi’s ability to utilize its DTAs, including the FTC components, and thus use the capital supporting the DTAs for more productive purposes, will be dependent upon Citi’s ability to generate U.S. taxable income in the relevant tax carry-forward period, including its ability to offset any negative impact of Citi Holdings on Citi’s U.S. taxable income. Failure to realize any portion of the DTAs would also have a corresponding negative impact on Citi’s net income.The Value of Citi’s DTAs Could Be Significantly Reduced If Corporate Tax Rates in the U.S. or Certain State or Foreign Jurisdictions Decline or as a Result of Other Changes in the U.S. Corporate Tax System.Congress and the Obama Administration have discussed decreasing the U.S. corporate tax rate. Similar discussions have taken place in certain state and foreign jurisdictions, including recent proposals in the State of New York. While Citi may benefit in some respects from any decrease in corporate tax rates, a reduction in the U.S., state or foreign corporate tax rates could result in a decrease, perhaps significant, in the value of Citi’s DTAs, which would result in a reduction to Citi’s net income during the period in which the change is enacted. There have also been recent discussions of more sweeping changes to the U.S. tax 67system, including changes to the tax treatment of foreign business income. It is uncertain whether or when any such tax reform proposals will be enacted into law, and whether or how they will affect Citi’s DTAs. Citi’s Interpretation or Application of the Extensive Tax Laws to Which It Is Subject Could Differ from Those of the Relevant Governmental Authorities, Which Could Result in the Payment of Additional Taxes and Penalties.Citi is subject to the various tax laws of the U.S. and its states and municipalities, as well as the numerous foreign jurisdictions in which it operates. These tax laws are inherently complex and Citi must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws to its entities, operations and businesses. Citi’s interpretations and application of the tax laws, including with respect to withholding tax obligations and stamp and other transactional taxes, could differ from that of the relevant governmental taxing authority, which could result in the potential for the payment of additional taxes, penalties or interest, which could be material. Citi Maintains Contractual Relationships with Various Retailers and Merchants Within Its U.S. Credit Card Businesses in NA RCB, and the Failure to Maintain Those Relationships Could Have a Material Negative Impact on the Results of Operations or Financial Condition of Those Businesses.Through its U.S. Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services credit card businesses within North America Regional Consumer Banking (NA RCB), Citi maintains numerous co-branding relationships with third-party retailers and merchants in the ordinary course of business pursuant to which Citi issues credit cards to customers of the retailers or merchants. These agreements provide for shared economics between the parties and ways to increase customer brand loyalty, and generally have a fixed term that may be extended or renewed by the parties or terminated early in certain circumstances. These agreements could be terminated due to, among other factors, a breach by Citi of its responsibilities under the applicable co-branding agreement, a breach by the retailer or merchant under the agreement, or external factors outside of either party’s control, including bankruptcies, liquidations, restructurings or consolidations and other similar events that may occur. While various mitigating factors could be available in the event of the loss of one or more of these co-branding relationships, such as replacing the retailer or merchant or by Citi’s offering new card products, the results of operations or financial condition of Citi-branded cards or Citi retail services, as applicable, or NA RCB could be negatively impacted, and the impact could be material.  Citi’s Operational Systems and Networks Have Been, and Will Continue to Be, Subject to an Increasing Risk of Continually Evolving Cybersecurity or Other Technological Risks, Which Could Result in the Disclosure of Confidential Client or Customer Information, Damage to Citi’s Reputation, Additional Costs to Citi, Regulatory Penalties and Financial Losses.A significant portion of Citi’s operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information as well as the monitoring of a large number of complex transactions on a minute-by-minute basis. For example, through its global consumer banking, credit card and Transaction Services businesses, Citi obtains and stores an extensive amount of personal and client-specific information for its retail, corporate and governmental customers and clients and must accurately record and reflect their extensive account transactions. With the evolving proliferation of new technologies and the increasing use of the Internet and mobile devices to conduct financial transactions, large, global financial institutions such as Citi have been, and will continue to be, subject to an increasing risk of cyber incidents from these activities.Although Citi devotes significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade its systems and networks with measures such as intrusion and detection prevention systems and monitoring firewalls to safeguard critical business applications, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can provide absolute security. Citi’s computer systems, software and networks are subject to ongoing cyber incidents such as unauthorized access; loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information); account takeovers; unavailability of service; computer viruses or other malicious code; cyber attacks; and other events. These threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. Additional challenges are posed by external extremist parties, including foreign state actors, in some circumstances as a means to promote political ends. If one or more of these events occur, it could result in the disclosure of confidential client information, damage to Citi’s reputation with its clients and the market, customer dissatisfaction, additional costs to Citi (such as repairing systems, replacing customer debit or credit cards, or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory penalties, exposure to litigation and other financial losses to both Citi and its clients and customers. Such events could also cause interruptions or malfunctions in the operations of Citi (such as the lack of availability of Citi’s online banking system or mobile banking platform), as well as the operations of its clients, customers or other third parties. Given Citi’s global footprint and the high volume of transactions processed by Citi, certain errors or actions may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified, which would further increase these costs and consequences.Citi has been subject to intentional cyber incidents from external sources, including (i) denial of service attacks, which attempted to interrupt service to clients and customers; (ii) data breaches, which aimed to obtain 68unauthorized access to customer account data; and (iii) malicious software attacks on client systems, which attempted to allow unauthorized entrance to Citi’s systems under the guise of a client and the extraction of client data. For example, in 2013 Citi and other U.S. financial institutions experienced distributed denial of service attacks which were intended to disrupt consumer online banking services. In addition, various retail stores were the subject of data breaches which led to access to customer account data. While Citi’s monitoring and protection services were able to detect and respond to the incidents targeting its systems before they became significant, they still resulted in certain limited losses in some instances as well as increases in expenditures to monitor against the threat of similar future cyber incidents. There can be no assurance that such cyber incidents will not occur again, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale. In addition, because the methods used to cause cyber attacks change frequently or, in some cases, are not recognized until launched, Citi may be unable to implement effective preventive measures or proactively address these methods.Third parties with which Citi does business may also be sources of cybersecurity or other technological risks. Citi outsources certain functions, such as processing customer credit card transactions, uploading content on customer-facing websites, and developing software for new products and services. These relationships allow for the storage and processing of customer information, by third-party hosting of or access to Citi websites, which could result in service disruptions or website defacements, and the potential to introduce vulnerable code, resulting in security breaches impacting Citi customers. While Citi engages in certain actions to reduce the exposure resulting from outsourcing, such as performing onsite security control assessments, limiting third-party access to the least privileged level necessary to perform job functions, and restricting third-party processing to systems stored within Citi’s data centers, ongoing threats may result in unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data or other cyber incidents with increased costs and consequences to Citi such as those discussed above. Furthermore, because financial institutions are becoming increasingly interconnected with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, including through the derivatives provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, Citi has increased exposure to operational failure or cyber attacks through third parties.While Citi maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions including significant self-insured deductibles, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses.Citi’s Performance and the Performance of Its Individual Businesses Could Be Negatively Impacted If Citi Is Not Able to Hire and Retain Qualified Employees for Any Reason.Citi’s performance and the performance of its individual businesses is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled employees. Specifically, Citi’s continued  ability to compete in its businesses, to manage its businesses effectively and to continue to execute its overall global strategy depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its existing employees. Citi’s ability to attract and retain employees depends on numerous factors, including without limitation, its culture, compensation, the management and leadership of the company as well as its individual businesses, Citi’s presence in the particular market or region at issue and the professional opportunities it offers. The banking industry has and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation, clawback requirements and special taxation. Moreover, given its continued focus on the emerging markets, Citi is often competing for qualified employees in these markets with entities that have a significantly greater presence in the region or are not subject to significant regulatory restrictions on the structure of incentive compensation. If Citi is unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees for any reason, Citi’s performance, including its competitive position, the successful execution of its overall strategy and its results of operations could be negatively impacted.Incorrect Assumptions or Estimates in Citi’s Financial Statements Could Cause Significant Unexpected Losses in the Future, and Changes to Financial Accounting and Reporting Standards Could Have a Material Impact on How Citi Records and Reports Its Financial Condition and Results of Operations.Citi is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing its financial statements under U.S. GAAP, including determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and regulatory exposures, DTAs and the fair values of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If Citi’s assumptions or estimates underlying its financial statements are incorrect, Citi could experience unexpected losses, some of which could be significant.Moreover, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) is currently reviewing or proposing changes to several financial accounting and reporting standards that govern key aspects of Citi’s financial statements, including those areas where Citi is required to make assumptions or estimates. For example, the FASB’s financial instruments project could, among other things, significantly change how Citi determines the accounting classification for financial instruments and could result in certain loans that are currently reported at amortized cost being accounted for at fair value through Other comprehensive income. The FASB has also proposed a new accounting model intended to require earlier recognition of credit losses on financial instruments. The proposed accounting model would require that life-time “expected credit losses” on financial assets not recorded at fair value through net income be recorded at inception of the financial asset, replacing the multiple existing impairment models under U.S. GAAP which generally require that a loss be “incurred” before it is recognized. In addition, the FASB has proposed changes in the accounting for insurance contracts, which would include 69in its scope many instruments currently accounted for as financial instruments and guarantees, including some where credit rather than insurance risk is the primary risk factor. As a result, certain financial contracts deemed to have significant insurance risk could no longer be recorded at fair value, and the timing of income recognition for insurance contracts could also be changed. For additional information on these and other proposed changes, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Changes to financial accounting or reporting standards, whether promulgated or required by the FASB or other regulators, could present operational challenges and could require Citi to change certain of the assumptions or estimates it previously used in preparing its financial statements, which could negatively impact how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations generally and/or with respect to particular businesses. In addition, the FASB continues its convergence project with the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) pursuant to which U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) may be converged. Any transition to IFRS could further have a material impact on how Citi records and reports its financial results. For additional information on the key areas for which assumptions and estimates are used in preparing Citi’s financial statements, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below and Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.It Is Uncertain Whether Any Further Changes in the Administration of LIBOR Could Affect the Value of LIBOR-Linked Debt Securities and Other Financial Obligations Held or Issued by Citi.As a result of concerns in recent years regarding the accuracy of LIBOR, changes have been made to the administration and process for determining LIBOR, including increasing the number of banks surveyed to set LIBOR, streamlining the number of LIBOR currencies and maturities and generally strengthening the oversight of the process, including by providing for U.K. regulatory oversight of LIBOR. In early 2014, Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) took over the administration of LIBOR from the British Banker’s Association (BBA).It is uncertain whether or to what extent any further changes in the administration or method for determining LIBOR could have on the value of any LIBOR-linked debt securities issued by Citi, or any loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit for which Citi is an obligor. It is also not certain whether or to what extent any such changes would have an adverse impact on the value of any LIBOR-linked securities, loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to Citi or on Citi’s overall financial condition or results of operations. Citi May Incur Significant Losses If Its Risk Management Processes and Strategies Are Ineffective, and Concentration of Risk Increases the Potential for Such Losses. Citi’s independent risk management organization is structured to facilitate the management of the principal risks Citi assumes in conducting its activities—credit risk, market risk and operational risk—across three dimensions: businesses, regions and critical products. Credit risk is the potential for financial loss resulting from the failure of a borrower or counterparty to honor its financial or contractual obligations. Market risk encompasses funding risk, liquidity risk and price risk. Price risk losses arise from fluctuations in the market value of trading and non-trading positions resulting from changes in interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity and commodity prices and in their implied volatilities. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, systems or human factors, or from external events, and includes reputation and franchise risk associated with business practices or market conduct in which Citi is involved. For additional information on each of these areas of risk as well as risk management at Citi, including management review processes and structure, see “Managing Global Risk” below. Managing these risks is made especially challenging within a global and complex financial institution such as Citi, particularly given the complex and diverse financial markets and rapidly evolving market conditions in which Citi operates.Citi employs a broad and diversified set of risk management and mitigation processes and strategies, including the use of various risk models, in analyzing and monitoring these and other risk categories. However, these models, processes and strategies are inherently limited because they involve techniques, including the use of historical data in some circumstances, and judgments that cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome in the markets in which Citi operates nor can they anticipate the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Citi could incur significant losses if its risk management processes, strategies or models are ineffective in properly anticipating or managing these risks.In addition, concentrations of risk, particularly credit and market risk, can further increase the risk of significant losses. At December 31, 2013, Citi’s most significant concentration of credit risk was with the U.S. government and its agencies, which primarily results from trading assets and investments issued by the U.S. government and its agencies (for additional information, see Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Citi also routinely executes a high volume of securities, trading, derivative and foreign exchange transactions with counterparties in the financial services sector, including banks, other financial institutions, insurance companies, investment banks and government and central banks. To the extent regulatory or market developments lead to an increased centralization of trading activity through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges, this could increase Citi’s concentration of risk in this sector. Concentrations of risk can limit, and have limited, the effectiveness of Citi’s hedging strategies and have caused Citi to incur significant losses, and they may do so again in the future.70MANAGING GLOBAL RISK