RISK FACTORSThe following discussion sets forth what management currently believes could be the most significant regulatory, credit and market, liquidity, legal and business and operational risks and uncertainties that could impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Other risks and uncertainties, including those not currently known to Citi or its management, could also negatively impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Thus, the following should not be considered a complete discussion of all of the risks and uncertainties Citi may face.REGULATORY RISKSCiti Faces Ongoing Significant Regulatory Changes and Uncertainties in the U.S. and Non-U.S. Jurisdictions in Which It Operates That Negatively Impact the Management of Its Businesses and Increase Its Compliance Risks and Costs.Citi continues to be subject to a significant number of regulatory changes and uncertainties across the U.S. and the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which it operates. Not only has the heightened regulatory environment facing financial institutions such as Citi resulted in a tendency toward more regulation, but also in some cases toward the most prescriptive regulation as regulatory agencies have often taken a restrictive approach to rulemaking, interpretive guidance, approvals and their general ongoing supervisory or prudential authority. Moreover, even when U.S. and international regulatory initiatives overlap, such as with derivatives reforms, in many instances they have not been undertaken on a coordinated basis, and areas of divergence have developed with respect to the scope, interpretation, timing, structure or approach, leading to additional, inconsistent or even conflicting regulations.Ongoing regulatory changes and uncertainties make Citi’s business planning difficult and could require Citi to change its business models or even its organizational structure, all of which could ultimately negatively impact Citi’s individual businesses, overall strategy and results of operations as well as realization of its deferred tax assets (DTAs). For example, several jurisdictions, including in Asia, Latin America and Europe, continue to enact fee and rate limits on debit and credit card transactions as well as various limits on sales practices for these and other areas of consumer lending, which could, among other things, negatively impact GCB’s businesses and revenues. In addition, during 2014, financial reform legislation was enacted in Mexico that required an antitrust study of the Mexican financial sector. The study has been issued and its recommendations include additional regulations intended to increase competition in the financial services industry in Mexico, which could negatively impact Citi’s Banamex subsidiary, Mexico’s second largest bank. In certain jurisdictions, including in the European Union (EU), there is discussion of adopting a financial transaction tax or similar fees on large financial institutions such as Citi, which could increase the costs to engage in certain transactions or otherwise negatively impact Citi’s results of operations. In addition, various regulators globally continue to consider  adoption of data privacy and/or “onshoring” requirements, such as the EU data protection framework, that would restrict the storage and use of client information. These regulations could conflict with anti-money laundering and other requirements in other jurisdictions, impede information sharing between Citi’s businesses and increase Citi’s compliance risks and costs. They could also impede or potentially reverse Citi’s centralization or standardization efforts, which provide expense efficiencies.Unless and until there is sufficient regulatory certainty, Citi’s business planning and/or proposed pricing for affected businesses necessarily include assumptions based on possible or proposed rules, requirements or outcomes. Business planning is further complicated by management’s continual need to review and evaluate the impact on Citi’s businesses of ongoing rule proposals, final rules, and implementation guidance from numerous regulatory bodies worldwide, often within compressed timeframes. In some cases, management’s implementation of a regulatory requirement and assessment of its impact is occurring simultaneously with changing regulatory guidance, legal challenges or legislative action to modify or repeal final rules, thus increasing management uncertainty. Ongoing regulatory changes also result in higher regulatory and compliance risks and costs. Citi estimates its regulatory and compliance costs have grown approximately 10% annually since 2011. These higher regulatory and compliance costs partially offset Citi’s continued cost reduction initiatives that are part of its execution priorities and negatively impact its results of operations. Ongoing regulatory changes and uncertainties also require management to continually manage Citi’s expenses and potentially reallocate resources, including potentially away from ongoing business investment initiatives.There Continue to Be Changes and Uncertainties Relating to the Regulatory Capital Requirements Applicable to Citi and the Ultimate Impact of These Requirements on Citi’s Businesses, Products and Results of Operations.Despite the adoption of the final U.S. Basel III rules, there continue to be changes and uncertainties regarding the regulatory capital requirements applicable to, and, as a result, the ultimate impact of these requirements on, Citi.Citi’s Basel III capital ratios and related components are subject to, among other things, ongoing regulatory supervision, including review and approval of Citi’s credit, market and operational risk models, additional refinements, modifications or enhancements (whether required or otherwise) to these models and any further implementation guidance in the U.S. Modifications or requirements resulting from these ongoing reviews, as well as the ongoing efforts by U.S. banking agencies to finalize and enhance the regulatory capital framework, have resulted and could continue to result in changes to Citi’s risk-weighted assets, total leverage exposure or other components of Citi’s capital ratios. These changes can negatively impact Citi’s capital ratios and its ability to achieve its capital requirements as it projects or as required. Further, because operational risk is measured based not only upon Citi’s historical loss experience but also upon 52ongoing events in the banking industry generally, Citi’s level of operational risk-weighted assets is likely to remain elevated for the foreseeable future, despite Citi’s continuing efforts to reduce its risk-weighted assets and exposures.Moreover, in December 2014, the Federal Reserve Board issued a notice of proposed rulemaking that would establish a risk-based capital surcharge for global systemically important bank holding companies (GSIB) in the U.S., including Citi. The Federal Reserve Board’s proposal is based on the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s (Basel Committee) GSIB surcharge framework, but adds an alternative method for calculating a U.S. GSIBs score (and thus its GSIB surcharge), which Citi expects will result in a significantly higher surcharge than the 2% calculated under the Basel Committee’s framework (for additional information on the details of the proposal, see “Capital Resources—Regulatory Capital Standards Developments” above). The Federal Reserve Board’s GSIB proposal creates ongoing uncertainty with respect to the ultimate surcharge applicable to Citi due to, among other things, the (i) requirement to recalculate the surcharge on an annual basis; (ii) complex calculations required to determine the amount of the surcharge; and (iii) the score for the indicators aligned with the Basel Committee GSIB framework is to be determined by converting Citi’s indicators into Euros and calibrating proportionally against a denominator based upon the aggregate indicator scores of other large global banking organizations, meaning that Citi’s score will fluctuate based on actions taken by these banking organizations, as well as movements in foreign exchange rates. Moreover, based on the Financial Stability Board’s (FSB) proposed “total loss-absorbing capacity” (TLAC) requirements, a higher GSIB surcharge would limit the amount of Common Equity Tier 1 Capital otherwise available to satisfy, in part, the TLAC requirements and thus potentially result in the need for Citi to issue higher levels of qualifying debt and preferred equity (for additional information, see “Regulatory Risks” and “Managing Global Risk—Market Risk—Funding and Liquidity Risk” below). In addition to the Federal Reserve Board’s GSIB proposal, various other proposals which could impact Citi’s regulatory capital framework are also being considered by regulatory bodies both in the U.S. and internationally, which further contribute to the uncertainties faced by financial institutions, including Citi. For example, the SEC has indicated that it is considering adopting rules that would impose a leverage ratio requirement for U.S. broker-dealers, which could result in the reduction of certain types of short-term funding, among other potential negative impacts. In addition, the Basel Committee continues to review and revise various aspects of its rules, including its model-based capital framework and standardized approaches to market, credit and operational risk. As a result of these ongoing uncertainties, Citi’s capital planning and management remains challenging. The Federal Reserve Board’s GSIB surcharge and other U.S. and international proposals could require Citi to further increase its capital and limit or otherwise restrict how Citi utilizes its capital, which could negatively impact its businesses, product offerings and results of operations. It also remains uncertain  as to what the overall impact of these regulatory capital changes will be on Citi’s competitive position, among both domestic and international peers. Citi’s Inability to Enhance its 2015 Resolution Plan Submission Could Subject Citi to More Stringent Capital, Leverage or Liquidity Requirements, or Restrictions on Its Growth, Activities or Operations, and Could Eventually Require Citi to Divest Assets or Operations in Ways That Could Negatively Impact Its Operations or Strategy.Title I of The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act) requires Citi to prepare and submit annually a plan for the orderly resolution of Citigroup (the bank holding company) and its significant legal entities under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or other applicable insolvency law in the event of future material financial distress or failure. Citi is also required to prepare and submit an annual resolution plan for its primary insured depository institution subsidiary, Citibank, N.A., and to demonstrate how Citibank, N.A. is adequately protected from the risks presented by non-bank affiliates. These plans, which require substantial effort, time and cost across all of Citi’s businesses and geographies, are subject to review by the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC. In August 2014, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC announced the completion of reviews of the 2013 resolution plans submitted by Citi and 10 other financial institutions. The agencies identified shortcomings with the firms’ 2013 resolution plans, including Citi’s. These shortcomings generally included (i) assumptions that the agencies regarded as unrealistic or inadequately supported, such as assumptions about the likely behavior of customers, counterparties, investors, central clearing facilities, and regulators; and (ii) the failure to make, or identify, the kinds of changes in firm structure and practices that would be necessary to enhance the prospects for orderly resolution. At the same time, the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC indicated that if the identified shortcomings are not addressed in the firms’ 2015 plan submissions, the agencies expect to use their authority under Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act. Under Title I, if the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC jointly determine that Citi’s 2015 resolution plan is not “credible” (which, although not defined, is generally believed to mean the regulators do not believe the plan is feasible or would otherwise allow the regulators to resolve Citi in a way that protects systemically important functions without severe systemic disruption), Citi could be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions, or restrictions on its growth, activities or operations, and eventually be required to divest certain assets or operations in ways that could negatively impact its operations and strategy. In August 2014, the FDIC determined that the 2013 resolution plans submitted by the 11 “first wave” filers, including Citi, were “not credible.”Other jurisdictions, such as the U.K., have also requested or are expected to request resolution plans from financial institutions, including Citi, and the requirements and timing relating to these plans are or are expected to be different from the U.S. requirements and from each other. Responding to 53these additional requests will require additional effort, time and cost, and regulatory review and requirements in these jurisdictions could be in addition to, or conflict with, changes required by Citi’s regulators in the U.S. There Continues to Be Significant Uncertainty Regarding the Implementation of Orderly Liquidation Authority and the Impact It Could Have on Citi’s Funding and Liquidity, Results of Operations and Competitiveness. Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act grants the FDIC the authority, under certain circumstances, to resolve systemically important financial institutions, including Citi. The FDIC has released a notice describing its preferred “single point of entry strategy” for such resolution, pursuant to which, generally, a bank holding company would be placed in receivership, the unsecured long-term debt of the holding company would bear losses and the operating subsidiaries would be recapitalized. Consistent with this strategy, in November 2014, the FSB issued a consultative document designed to ensure that GSIBs have sufficient loss-absorbing and recapitalization capacity in resolution to implement an orderly resolution. Specifically, the proposal would (i) establish a new firm-specific minimum requirement for TLAC; (ii) stipulate which liabilities of the GSIB would be eligible TLAC; and (iii) the location of the TLAC within the firm’s overall funding structure, including the “pre-positioning” of specified amounts of TLAC to identified material subsidiaries within the firm’s structure, including international entities (for additional information on the TLAC proposal, see “Managing Global Risk—Market Risk—Funding and Liquidity Risk” below). It is expected that the Federal Reserve Board will issue a proposal to establish similar TLAC requirements for U.S. GSIBs during 2015. There are significant uncertainties and interpretive issues arising from the FSB proposal, including (i) the minimum TLAC requirement for Citi; (ii) the amount of Citi’s TLAC that must be pre-positioned to material subsidiaries within Citi’s structure, and the identification of those entities; and (iii) which of Citi’s existing long-term liabilities constitute eligible TLAC. Moreover, based on the FSB’s proposal, the minimum TLAC requirement must be met excluding regulatory capital instruments used to satisfy Citi’s regulatory capital buffers, resulting in a higher overall TLAC requirement consisting of the required TLAC minimum plus required capital buffers. As a result, as discussed in the regulatory capital risk factor above, a higher GSIB surcharge would potentially result in the need for Citi to issue higher levels of qualifying debt and preferred equity. The FSB’s proposal also provides guidance for regulatory authorities to determine additional TLAC requirements, specific to individual financial institutions. Accordingly, similar to the Federal Reserve Board’s U.S. GSIB proposal, the Federal Reserve Board could propose TLAC requirements for Citi that are higher or more stringent than its international peers or even its U.S. peers. To the extent Citi does not meet any final minimum TLAC requirement, it would need to re-position its funding profile, including potentially issuing additional TLAC-eligible instruments and/or replacing existing non-TLAC eligible  funding with TLAC-eligible funding. This could increase Citi’s costs of funds, alter its current funding and liquidity planning and management and/or negatively impact its revenues and results of operations. In addition, the requirement to pre-position TLAC-eligible instruments with material subsidiaries could result in significant funding inefficiencies, increase Citi’s overall liquidity requirements by reducing the fungibility of its funding sources and require certain of Citi’s subsidiaries to replace lower cost funding with other higher cost funding. Furthermore, Citi could be at a competitive disadvantage versus financial institutions that are not subject to such minimum requirements, such as non-regulated financial intermediaries, smaller financial institutions and entities in jurisdictions with less onerous or no such requirements.The Impact to Citi’s Derivatives Businesses, Results of Operations and Competitive Position Resulting from the Ongoing Implementation of Derivatives Regulation in the U.S. and Globally Continues to Be Difficult to Predict.The ongoing implementation of derivatives regulations in the U.S. as well as in non-U.S. jurisdictions has impacted, and will likely continue to substantially impact, the derivatives markets. However, given the additional rulemaking expected to occur as well as the ongoing interpretive issues across jurisdictions, it is not yet possible to determine what the ultimate impact to Citi’s global derivatives businesses, results of operations and competitive position will be.For example, under the CFTC’s rules relating to the registration of swap execution facilities (SEF), certain non-U.S. trading platforms that do not want to register with the CFTC as a SEF are prohibiting firms with U.S. contacts, such as Citi, from trading on their non-U.S. platforms. In addition, pursuant to the CFTC’s mandatory clearing requirements for the overseas branches of Citibank, N.A., certain of Citi’s non-U.S. clients have ceased to clear their swaps with Citi given the mandatory requirement. More broadly, under the CFTC’s cross-border guidance, overseas clients who transact their derivatives business with overseas branches of U.S. banks, including Citi, could be subject to additional U.S. registration and derivatives requirements, and these clients continue to look for alternatives to dealing with overseas branches of U.S. banks as a result. All of these and similar changes have resulted in some bifurcated activity in the swaps marketplace, between U.S.-person and non-U.S.-person markets, which could disproportionately impact Citi given its global footprint.In addition, in September 2014, U.S. regulators re-proposed rules relating to margin requirements for uncleared swaps. As re-proposed, the rules would require Citibank, N.A. to both collect and post margin to counterparties, as well as collect and post margin to its affiliates, in connection with any uncleared swap, with the initial margin required to be held by unaffiliated third-party custodians. As a result, any new margin requirements could significantly increase the cost to Citibank, N.A. and its counterparties of conducting uncleared swaps. In addition, the requirements would also apply to the non-U.S. branches of Citibank, N.A. and certain non-U.S. affiliates, which could result in further competitive disadvantages for Citi if it is required to collect margin on 54uncleared swaps in non-U.S. jurisdictions prior to competitors in those jurisdictions being required to do so, if required to do so at all.Further, the EU continues to finalize various aspects of its European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR), and the EU and CFTC have yet to render any “equivalency” determinations (i.e., regulatory acknowledgment of the equivalency of derivatives regimes), which has compounded the bifurcation of the swaps market, as noted above. Regulators in Asia also continue to finalize their derivatives reforms which, to date, have taken a different approach as compared to the EU or the U.S. Because most of these non-U.S. reforms are not yet finalized, it is uncertain to what extent the non-U.S. reforms will impose different, additional or even inconsistent requirements on Citi’s derivatives activities.While the implementation and effectiveness of individual derivatives reforms may not in every case be significant, the cumulative impact of these reforms continues to be uncertain and could be material to Citi’s results of operations and the competitive position of its derivatives businesses.In addition, numerous aspects of the new derivatives regime require extensive compliance systems and processes to be maintained, including electronic recordkeeping, real-time public transaction reporting and external business conduct requirements (e.g., required swap counterparty disclosures). This compliance risk increases to the extent the final non-U.S. reforms are different from or inconsistent with the final U.S. reforms. Citi’s failure to effectively maintain such systems, across jurisdictions, could subject it to increased compliance costs and regulatory and reputational risks, particularly given the heightened regulatory environment in which Citi operates globally. The Continued Implementation of the Volcker Rule and Similar Reform Efforts Subject Citi to Regulatory and Compliance Risks and Costs.Although the rules implementing the restrictions under the Volcker Rule were finalized in December 2013, and the conformance period was generally extended to July 2015, the final rules require Citi to develop an extensive compliance regime for the “permitted” activities under the Volcker Rule, including documentation of historical trading activities with clients, individual testing and training, regulatory reporting, recordkeeping and similar requirements as well as an annual CEO certification with respect to the processes Citi has in place to ensure compliance with the final rules. Moreover, despite the passage of time since the adoption of the final rules, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the interpretation of certain provisions of the final rules, including with respect to the covered funds provisions and the permitted activities under the rules. As a result, Citi is required to make certain assumptions as to the degree to which its activities are permitted to continue. If Citi’s implementation of the required compliance regime is not consistent with regulatory expectations or requirements, or if Citi’s assumptions in implementation of the final rules are not accurate, Citi could be subject to increased regulatory and compliance risks and costs as well as potential reputational harm.  Proposals for structural reform of banking entities, including restrictions on proprietary trading, also continue to be introduced in various non-U.S. jurisdictions, thus leading to overlapping or potentially conflicting regimes. For example, in the EU, the Bank Structural Reform draft directive (formerly known as the “Liikanen” or “Barnier” Proposal) would prohibit proprietary trading by in-scope credit institutions and banking groups, such as certain of Citi’s EU branches, and potentially result in the mandatory separation of certain trading activities into a trading entity legally, economically and operationally separate from the legal entity holding the banking activities of a firm.It is likely that, given Citi’s worldwide operations, some form of these or other proposals for the regulation of proprietary trading will eventually be applicable to a portion of Citi’s operations. While the Volcker Rule and these non-U.S. proposals are intended to address similar concerns—separating the perceived risks of proprietary trading and certain other investment banking activities in order not to affect more traditional banking and retail activities—they would do so under different structures, which could result in inconsistent regulatory regimes and additional compliance risks and costs for Citi in light of its global activities.Recently Adopted and Future Regulations Applicable to Securitizations Could Impose Additional Costs and May Discourage Citi from Performing Certain Roles in Securitizations.Citi endeavors to play a variety of roles in asset securitization transactions, including acting as underwriter, issuer, sponsor, depositor, trustee and counterparty. During the latter part of 2014, numerous regulatory changes relating to securitizations were finalized, including risk retention requirements for securitizers of certain assets and extensive changes to the SEC’s Regulation AB, including changes to the registration, disclosure and reporting requirements for asset-backed securities and other structured finance products. Because certain of these rules were recently adopted, the multi-agency implementation has just begun and extensive interpretive issues remain. As a result, the cumulative impact of these changes, as well as additional regulations yet to be finalized, both on Citi’s participation in these transactions as well as on the securitization markets generally, is uncertain. It is likely that many aspects of the new rules will increase the costs of securitization transactions. It is also possible that these changes may hinder the recovery of previously active securitization markets or decrease the attractiveness of Citi’s executing or participating in certain securitization transactions, including securitization transactions which Citi previously executed or in which it participated, such as private-label mortgage securitizations. This could in turn reduce the income Citi earns from these transactions or hinder Citi’s ability to use such transactions to hedge risks, reduce exposures or reduce assets with adverse risk-weighting within its businesses.55CREDIT AND MARKET RISKSMacroeconomic Challenges in the U.S. and Globally, Including in the Emerging Markets, Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Businesses and Results of Operations. Citi has experienced, and could experience in the future, negative impacts to its businesses and results of operations, such as elevated credit costs and/or decreased revenues in its Markets and securities services businesses, as a result of macroeconomic challenges, uncertainties and volatility. While the U.S. economy continues to improve, it remains susceptible to global events and volatility. Moreover, U.S. fiscal and monetary actions, or expected actions, can also impact not only the U.S. but global markets and economies as well as Citi’s businesses and results of operations. For example, the Federal Reserve Board may begin to increase short-term interest rates during 2015. Speculation about the timing of such a change has previously resulted in significant volatility in the U.S. and global markets. While Citi expects certain positive impacts as a result, such as an increase in net interest revenue (for additional information, see “Managing Global Risk—Market Risk—Price Risk” below), the ultimate impact to Citi’s businesses and results of operations will depend on the timing, amount and market and consumer or other reactions to any such increases.  In addition, concerns remain regarding various U.S. government fiscal challenges and events that could occur as a result, such as a potential U.S. government shutdown or default. In recent years, these issues, including potential or actual ratings downgrades of U.S. debt obligations, have adversely affected U.S. and global financial markets, economic conditions and Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition, and they could do so again in the future. Outside of the U.S., the global economic recovery remains uneven and uncertain. The economic and fiscal situations of several European countries remain fragile, and geopolitical tensions throughout the region, including in Russia, have added to the uncertainties. Fiscal and monetary actions, or expected actions, throughout the region have further impacted the global financial markets as well as Citi’s businesses and results of operations. While concerns relating to sovereign defaults or a partial or complete break-up of the European Monetary Union (EMU), including potential accompanying redenomination risks and uncertainties, seemed to have abated during 2014, such concerns have resurfaced with the election of a new government in Greece in January 2015 (for Citi’s third-party assets and liabilities in Greece as of December 31, 2014, see “Managing Global Risk—Country and Cross-Border Risk” below).Slower growth in certain emerging markets, such as China, has also occurred, whether due to global macroeconomic conditions or geopolitical tensions, governmental or regulatory policies or economic conditions within the particular region or country (for additional information on risks specific to the emerging markets, see the risk factor below). Given Citi’s strategy and focus on the emerging markets, actual or perceived uncertainty regarding future economic growth in the emerging markets has impacted  and could continue to negatively impact Citi’s businesses and results of operations, and Citi could be disproportionately impacted as compared to its competitors. Further, if a particular country’s economic situation were to deteriorate below a certain level, U.S. regulators can and have imposed mandatory loan loss and other reserve requirements on Citi, which could negatively impact its cost of credit and earnings, perhaps significantly (see, e.g., “Managing Global Risk—Country and Cross-Border Risk—Argentina” below).  Citi’s Extensive Global Network Subjects It to Various International and Emerging Markets Risks as well as Increased Compliance and Regulatory Risks and Costs.During 2014, international revenues accounted for approximately 58%, and emerging markets revenues accounted for approximately 40%, of Citi’s total revenues (for additional information on how Citi defines the emerging markets as well as its exposures in certain of these markets, see “Managing Global Risk—Country and Cross-Border Risk” below).Citi’s extensive global network subjects it to a number of risks associated with international and emerging markets. These risks can include sovereign volatility, political events, foreign exchange controls, limitations on foreign investment, sociopolitical instability, fraud, nationalization or loss of licenses, sanctions, potential criminal charges, closure of branches or subsidiaries and confiscation of assets. For example, Citi operates in several countries that have strict foreign exchange controls, such as Argentina and Venezuela, that limit its ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars and/or transfer funds outside the country. During 2014, Citi discovered certain frauds involving its Mexico subsidiary, Banamex. There have also been instances of political turmoil and other instability in certain countries in which Citi operates, such as in Russia, Ukraine and the Middle East, which have required management time and attention (e.g., monitoring the impact of sanctions on Russian entities, business sectors, individuals or otherwise on Citi’s businesses and results of operations). Citi’s extensive global operations also increase its compliance and regulatory risks and costs. For example, Citi’s operations in emerging markets, including facilitating cross-border transactions on behalf of its clients, subject it to higher compliance risks under U.S. regulations primarily focused on various aspects of global corporate activities, such as anti-money-laundering regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These risks can be more acute in less developed markets and thus require substantial investment in compliance infrastructure or could result in a reduction in certain of Citi’s business activities. Any failure by Citi to comply with applicable U.S. regulations, as well as the regulations in the countries and markets in which it operates as a result of its global footprint, could result in fines, penalties, injunctions or other similar restrictions, any of which could negatively impact Citi’s earnings and its reputation. 56Citi’s Results of Operations Could Be Negatively Impacted as Its Revolving Home Equity Lines of Credit Continue to “Reset.”As of December 31, 2014, Citi’s home equity loan portfolio of approximately $28.1 billion included approximately $16.7 billion of home equity lines of credit that were still within their revolving period and had not commenced amortization, or “reset” (Revolving HELOCs). Of these Revolving HELOCs, approximately 78% will commence amortization during the period of 2015–2017 (for additional information, see “Managing Global Risk—Credit Risk—North America Consumer Mortgage Lending” below).Before commencing amortization, Revolving HELOC borrowers are required to pay only interest on their loans. Upon amortization, these borrowers are required to pay both interest, usually at a variable rate, and principal that typically amortizes over 20 years, rather than the typical 30-year amortization. As a result, Citi’s customers with Revolving HELOCs that reset could experience “payment shock” due to the higher required payments on the loans. Increases in interest rates could further increase these payments, given the variable nature of the interest rates on these loans post-reset. Based on the limited number of Citi’s Revolving HELOCs that have reset as of December 31, 2014, Citi has experienced a higher 30+ days past due delinquency rate on its amortizing home equity loans as compared to its total outstanding home equity loan portfolio (amortizing and non-amortizing). Moreover, a portion of the resets that have occurred to date occurred during a period of declining interest rates, which Citi believes likely reduced the overall payment shock to borrowers. While Citi continues to monitor this reset risk closely and review and take additional actions to offset potential reset risk, increasing interest rates, stricter lending criteria and high borrower loan-to-value positions could limit Citi’s ability to reduce or mitigate this reset risk going forward. Accordingly, as these loans continue to reset, Citi could experience higher delinquency rates and increased loan loss reserves and net credit losses in future periods, which could be significant and would negatively impact its results of operations.Concentrations of Risk Can Increase the Potential for Citi to Incur Significant Losses.Concentrations of risk, particularly credit and market risk, can increase Citi’s risk of significant losses. As of December 31, 2014, Citi’s most significant concentration of credit risk was with the U.S. government and its agencies, which primarily results from trading assets and investments issued by the U.S. government and its agencies (for additional information, see Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Citi also routinely executes a high volume of securities, trading, derivative and foreign exchange transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including banks, other financial institutions, insurance companies, investment banks and government and central banks. To the extent regulatory or market developments lead to increased centralization of trading activity through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges, this could also increase Citi’s concentration of risk in this industry. Concentrations of  risk can limit, and have limited, the effectiveness of Citi’s hedging strategies and have caused Citi to incur significant losses, and they may do so again in the future. LIQUIDITY RISKSCiti’s Liquidity Planning, Management and Funding Could Be Negatively Impacted by the Heightened Regulatory Focus on and Continued Changes to Liquidity Standards and Requirements.In September 2014, the U.S. banking agencies adopted final rules with respect to the U.S. Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) (for additional information on the final LCR requirements, see “Managing Global Risk—Market Risk—Funding and Liquidity Risk” below). Implementation of the final LCR requirements requires Citi to maintain extensive compliance procedures and systems, including systems to calculate Citi’s LCR daily once the rules are fully implemented. Moreover, Citi’s liquidity planning, stress testing and management remains subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny and review, including pursuant to the Federal Reserve Board’s Comprehensive Liquidity Analysis and Review (CLAR) as well as regulators’ enhanced prudential standards authority. If Citi’s interpretation or implementation of the LCR requirements, or its overall liquidity planning and management, is not consistent with regulatory expectations or requirements, Citi’s funding and liquidity could be negatively impacted and it could incur increased compliance risks and costs. In addition, in October 2014, the Basel Committee adopted final rules relating to the Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR), and the U.S. banking agencies are expected to propose U.S. NSFR rules during 2015 (for additional information on the Basel Committee’s final NSFR rules, see “Managing Global Risk—Market Risk—Funding and Liquidity Risk” below). Several aspects of the Basel Committee’s final NSFR rules will likely require further analysis and clarification, including with respect to the calculation of derivative assets and liabilities and netting of these assets. The final rules also leave discretion to national supervisors (i.e., the U.S. banking agencies) in several areas. Accordingly, like other areas of regulatory reform, it remains uncertain whether the U.S. NSFR rules might be more restrictive than the Basel Committee’s final NSFR. It also remains uncertain whether other entities or subsidiaries within Citi’s structure will be required to comply with the NSFR requirements, as well as the parameters of any such requirements. Until these parameters are known, it is not possible to determine the potential impact to Citi’s, or its subsidiaries’, liquidity planning, management or funding. Moreover, to the extent other jurisdictions propose or adopt quantitative liquidity requirements that differ from any of the Basel Committee’s or the U.S. liquidity requirements, Citi could be at a competitive disadvantage because of its global footprint or could be required to meet different minimum liquidity standards in some or all of the jurisdictions in which it operates.57For a discussion of the potential negative impacts to Citi’s liquidity planning, management and funding resulting from the U.S. GSIB capital surcharge proposal and the FSB’s TLAC proposal, see “Regulatory Risks” above. The Maintenance of Adequate Liquidity and Funding Depends on Numerous Factors, Including Those Outside of Citi’s Control, Such as Market Disruptions and Increases in Citi’s Credit Spreads.As a global financial institution, adequate liquidity and sources of funding are essential to Citi’s businesses. Citi’s liquidity and sources of funding can be significantly and negatively impacted by factors it cannot control, such as general disruptions in the financial markets, governmental fiscal and monetary policies, or negative investor perceptions of Citi’s creditworthiness.In addition, Citi’s cost and ability to obtain deposits, secured funding and long-term unsecured funding are directly related to its credit spreads. Changes in credit spreads constantly occur and are market driven, including both external market factors and factors specific to Citi, and can be highly volatile. Citi’s credit spreads may also be influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to Citi’s long-term debt, which are also impacted by these external and Citi-specific factors. Moreover, Citi’s ability to obtain funding may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to access the markets at the same time, or if market appetite is reduced, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. In addition, clearing organizations, regulators, clients and financial institutions with which Citi interacts may exercise the right to require additional collateral based on these market perceptions or market conditions, which could further impair Citi’s access to and cost of funding.As a holding company, Citi relies on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividends as well as to satisfy its debt and other obligations. Several of Citi’s U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are or may be subject to capital adequacy or other regulatory or contractual restrictions on their ability to provide such payments, including any local regulatory stress test requirements or the proposed TLAC requirements (see “Regulatory Risks” above). Limitations on the payments that Citi receives from its subsidiaries could also impact its liquidity. The Credit Rating Agencies Continuously Review the Credit Ratings of Citi and Certain of Its Subsidiaries, and Ratings Downgrades Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Funding and Liquidity Due to Reduced Funding Capacity and Increased Funding Costs, Including Derivatives Triggers That Could Require Cash Obligations or Collateral Requirements.The credit rating agencies, such as Fitch, Moody’s and S&P, continuously evaluate Citi and certain of its subsidiaries, and their ratings of Citi and its more significant subsidiaries’ long-term/senior debt and short-term/commercial paper, as applicable, are based on a number of factors, including standalone financial strength, as well as factors not entirely within the control of Citi and its subsidiaries, such as the  agencies’ proprietary rating agency methodologies and assumptions, the rating agencies’ “government support uplift” assumptions, and conditions affecting the financial services industry and markets generally.Citi and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their current respective ratings. Ratings downgrades could negatively impact Citi’s ability to access the capital markets and other sources of funds as well as the costs of those funds, and its ability to maintain certain deposits. A ratings downgrade could also have a negative impact on Citi’s funding and liquidity due to reduced funding capacity, including derivative triggers, which could take the form of cash obligations and collateral requirements. In addition, a ratings downgrade could also have a negative impact on other funding sources, such as secured financing and other margined transactions for which there are no explicit triggers, as well as on contractual provisions, which contain minimum ratings thresholds in order for Citi to hold third-party funds.Moreover, credit ratings downgrades can have impacts, which may not be currently known to Citi or which are not possible to quantify. For example, some entities may have ratings limitations as to their permissible counterparties, of which Citi may or may not be aware. In addition, certain of Citi’s corporate customers and trading counterparties, among other clients, could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi and limit the trading of certain contracts or market instruments with Citi in response to ratings downgrades. Changes in customer and counterparty behavior could impact not only Citi’s funding and liquidity but also the results of operations of certain Citi businesses. For additional information on the potential impact of a reduction in Citi’s or Citibank, N.A.’s credit ratings, see “Managing Global Risk—Market Risk—Funding and Liquidity—Credit Ratings” below.LEGAL RISKSCiti Is Subject to Extensive Legal and Regulatory Proceedings, Investigations and Inquiries That Could Result in Significant Penalties and Other Impacts on Citi, Its Businesses and Results of Operations.At any given time, Citi is defending a significant number of legal and regulatory proceedings and is subject to numerous governmental and regulatory examinations, investigations and other inquiries. The frequency with which such proceedings, investigations and inquiries are initiated, and the severity of the remedies sought (and in several cases obtained), have increased substantially over the last few years, and the global judicial, regulatory and political environment generally remains hostile to large financial institutions such as Citi. Continued heightened scrutiny of the financial services industry by regulators and other enforcement authorities has led to questioning of industry practices and additional expectations regarding Citi’s management and oversight of third parties doing business with Citi (e.g., vendors). In addition, U.S. and non-U.S. regulators are increasingly focused on “conduct risk,” a term that is used to describe the risks associated with misconduct by employees and agents that could harm consumers, investors, or the markets, such as failures to safeguard consumers’ and investors’ personal 58information and improperly creating, selling and marketing products and services, among other forms of misconduct. The increased scrutiny and expectations of financial institutions, including Citi, and the questioning of the overall “culture” of Citi and the financial services industry generally as well as the effectiveness of Citi’s control functions, has and could continue to lead to more regulatory or other enforcement proceedings. While Citi takes numerous steps to prevent and detect misconduct by employees and agents, misconduct may not always be deterred or prevented. In addition, the complexity of the federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes in the U.S., coupled with the global scope of Citi’s operations and the continued aggressiveness of the regulatory environment worldwide, also means that a single event may give rise to a large number of overlapping investigations and regulatory proceedings, either by multiple federal and state agencies in the U.S. or by multiple regulators and other governmental entities in different jurisdictions.For example, Citi is subject to extensive legal and regulatory inquiries, actions and investigations, including by the Antitrust Division and the Criminal Division of the U.S. Department of Justice, relating to Citi’s contribution to, or trading in products linked to, rates or benchmarks. These rates and benchmarks may relate to foreign exchange rates (such as the WM/Reuters fix), interest rates (such as the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or ISDAFIX), or other prices. Like other banks with operations in the U.S., Citi is also subject to continuing oversight by bank regulators, and inquiries and investigations by other governmental and regulatory authorities, with respect to its anti-money laundering program. The severity of the remedies sought in these and the other legal and regulatory proceedings to which Citi is subject has increased substantially in recent years. U.S. and certain international governmental entities have emphasized a willingness to bring criminal actions against, or seek criminal convictions from, financial institutions, and criminal prosecutors in the U.S. have increasingly sought and obtained criminal guilty pleas or deferred prosecution agreements against corporate entities and other criminal sanctions from those institutions. Such actions can have significant collateral consequences for a subject financial institution, including loss of customers and business, and the inability to offer certain products or services and/or operate certain businesses. In addition, in recent years Citi has entered into consent orders and paid substantial fines and penalties, or provided monetary and other relief, in connection with the resolution of its extensive legal and regulatory matters. Citi may be required to accept or be subject to similar types of criminal or other remedies, fines, penalties and other requirements in the future, any of which could materially and negatively affect Citi’s businesses, business practices, financial condition or results of operations, require material changes in Citi’s operations, or cause Citi reputational harm. Resolution of these matters also results in significant time, expense and diversion of management’s attention.  Further, many large claims asserted against Citi are highly complex and slow to develop, and may involve novel  or untested legal theories. The outcome of such proceedings is difficult to predict or estimate until late in the proceedings, which may last several years. Although Citi establishes accruals for its legal and regulatory matters according to accounting requirements, the amount of loss ultimately incurred in relation to those matters may be substantially higher than the amounts accrued. In addition, certain settlements are subject to court approval and may not be approved.For additional information relating to Citi’s legal and regulatory proceedings, see Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.BUSINESS AND OPERATIONAL RISKSCiti’s Ability to Return Capital to Shareholders Substantially Depends on the CCAR Process and the Results of Regulatory Stress Tests.In addition to Board of Directors’ approval, any decision by Citi to return capital to shareholders, whether through an increase in its common stock dividend or through a share repurchase program, substantially depends on regulatory approval, including through the annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process required by the Federal Reserve Board and the supervisory stress tests required under the Dodd-Frank Act. In March 2014, the Federal Reserve Board announced that it objected to the capital plan submitted by Citi as part of the 2014 CCAR process, meaning Citi was not able to increase its return of capital to shareholders as it had requested. Citi must address the Federal Reserve Board’s concerns, expectations and requirements regarding Citi’s capital planning process in order to return additional capital to shareholders under the 2015 CCAR process. Restrictions on Citi’s ability to return capital to shareholders as a result of the 2014 CCAR process negatively impacted market and investor perceptions of Citi, and continued restrictions could do so in the future.Citi’s ability to accurately predict or explain to stakeholders the outcome of the CCAR process, and thus address any such market or investor perceptions, is complicated by the Federal Reserve Board’s evolving criteria employed in its overall aggregate assessment of Citi. The Federal Reserve Board’s assessment of Citi is conducted not only by using the Board’s proprietary stress test models, but also a number of qualitative factors, including a detailed assessment of Citi’s “capital adequacy process,” as defined by the Federal Reserve Board. These qualitative factors were cited by the Federal Reserve Board in its objection to Citi’s 2014 capital plan, and the Board has stated that it expects leading capital adequacy practices will continue to evolve and will likely be determined by the Board each year as a result of its cross-firm review of capital plan submissions.Similarly, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that, as part of its stated goal to continually evolve its annual stress testing requirements, several parameters of the annual stress testing process may be altered from time to time, including the severity of the stress test scenario, Federal Reserve Board modeling of Citi’s balance sheet and the addition of 59components deemed important by the Federal Reserve Board (e.g., a counterparty failure). In addition, as part of the Federal Reserve Board’s U.S. GSIB proposal, the Federal Reserve Board indicated that it may consider, at some point in the future, that some or all of Citi’s GSIB surcharge be integrated into its post-stress test minimum capital requirements. These parameter and other alterations could further increase the level of capital Citi must meet as part of the stress tests, thus potentially impacting levels of capital returns to shareholders. Further, because it is not clear how the Federal Reserve Board’s proprietary stress test models and qualitative assessment may differ from the modeling techniques and capital planning practices employed by Citi, it is likely that Citi’s stress test results (using its own models, estimation methodologies and processes) may not be consistent with those disclosed by the Federal Reserve Board, thus potentially leading to additional confusion and impacts to Citi’s perception in the market.Citi’s Ability to Achieve Its 2015 Efficiency and Return on Assets Targets Will Depend in Part on the Successful Achievement of Its Execution Priorities. In March 2013, Citi established 2015 financial targets for Citicorp’s operating efficiency ratio and Citigroup’s return on assets. Citi’s ability to achieve these targets will depend in part on the successful achievement of its execution priorities, including efficient resource allocation, which includes disciplined expense management; a continued focus on the wind-down of Citi Holdings and maintaining Citi Holdings at or above “break even”; and utilization of its DTAs (see below). Citi’s ability to achieve its targets will also depend on factors which it cannot control, such as ongoing regulatory changes, continued higher regulatory and compliance costs and macroeconomic conditions, among others. While Citi continues to take actions to achieve its execution priorities, there is no guarantee that Citi will be successful.Citi continues to pursue its disciplined expense-management strategy, including re-engineering, restructuring operations and improving efficiency. However, there is no guarantee that Citi will be able to reduce its level of expenses as a result of announced repositioning actions, efficiency initiatives or otherwise, and investments Citi has made in its businesses, or may make in the future, may not be as productive or effective as Citi expects or at all. Citi’s expenses also depend, in part, on factors not entirely within its control. For example, during 2014, Citi incurred significant legal and related costs in order to resolve various of its extensive legal and regulatory proceedings and inquiries. In order to achieve its 2015 financial targets, Citi will need to significantly reduce its legal and related costs, as well as repositioning expenses, from 2014 levels. In addition, while Citi has made significant progress in winding-down Citi Holdings over the last several years, maintaining Citi Holdings at or above “break even” in 2015 will be important to achieving its return on assets target. As discussed under “Global Consumer Banking” and “Institutional Clients Group” above, beginning in the first quarter of 2015, Citi will be reporting certain of its non-core  consumer and institutional businesses as part of Citi Holdings. While Citi expects to maintain Citi Holdings at or above “break even” in 2015 even with the inclusion of these businesses, it may not be able to do so due to factors it cannot control, as described above. In addition, as described under “Citi Holdings” above, the remaining assets in Citi Holdings as of December 31, 2014 consisted of North America consumer mortgages as well as larger remaining businesses, including Citi’s legacy CitiFinancial business, and, beginning in the first quarter of 2015, the non-core consumer and institutional businesses referenced above. While Citi’s strategy continues to be to reduce the assets in Citi Holdings as quickly as practicable in an economically rational manner, and it expects to substantially complete the exit of the consumer businesses moved to Citi Holdings in the first quarter by the end of 2015, sales of the remaining larger businesses in Citi Holdings will also depend on factors outside of Citi’s control, such as market appetite and buyer funding, and the remaining mortgage assets will largely continue to be subject to ongoing run-off and opportunistic sales. As a result, Citi Holdings’ remaining assets could have a negative impact on Citi’s overall results of operations or financial condition.Citi’s Ability to Utilize Its DTAs, and Thus Reduce the Negative Impact of the DTAs on Citi’s Regulatory Capital, Will Be Driven by Its Ability to Generate U.S. Taxable Income.At December 31, 2014, Citi’s net DTAs were $49.5 billion, of which approximately $34.3 billion was excluded from Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, on a fully implemented basis, under the final U.S. Basel III rules (for additional information, see “Capital Resources—Components of Capital under Basel III (Advanced Approaches with Full Implementation)” above). In addition, of the net DTAs as of year-end 2014, approximately $17.6 billion related to foreign tax credit carry-forwards (FTCs). The carry-forward utilization period for FTCs is 10 years and represents the most time-sensitive component of Citi’s DTAs. Of the FTCs at year-end 2014, approximately $1.9 billion expire in 2017, $5.2 billion expire in 2018 and the remaining $10.5 billion expire over the period of 2019–2023. Citi must utilize any FTCs generated in the then-current year prior to utilizing any carry-forward FTCs. The accounting treatment for realization of DTAs, including FTCs, is complex and requires significant judgment and estimates regarding future taxable earnings in the jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise and available tax planning strategies. Citi’s ability to utilize its DTAs, including the FTC components, and thus use the capital supporting the DTAs for more productive purposes, will be dependent upon Citi’s ability to generate U.S. taxable income in the relevant tax carry-forward periods. Failure to realize any portion of the DTAs would also have a corresponding negative impact on Citi’s net income.In addition, with regard to FTCs, utilization will be influenced by actions to optimize U.S. taxable earnings for the purpose of consuming the FTC carry-forward component of the DTAs prior to expiration. These FTC actions, however, may serve to increase the DTAs for other less time sensitive components. Moreover, tax return limitations on FTCs and 60general business credits that cause Citi to incur current tax expense, notwithstanding its tax carry-forward position, could impact the rate of overall DTA utilization.DTA utilization will also continue to be driven by movements in Citi’s Accumulated other comprehensive income, which can be impacted by changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. For additional information on Citi’s DTAs, including the FTCs, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Income Taxes” below and Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.The Value of Citi’s DTAs Could Be Significantly Reduced IfCorporate Tax Rates in the U.S. or Certain State or Foreign Jurisdictions Decline or as a Result of Other Changes in theU.S. Corporate Tax System.Congress and the Obama Administration have discussed decreasing the U.S. corporate tax rate. Similar discussions have taken place in certain local, state and foreign jurisdictions, including in New York City and Japan. While Citi may benefit in some respects from any decrease in corporate tax rates, a reduction in the U.S., state or foreign corporate tax rates could result in a decrease, perhaps significant, in the value of Citi’s DTAs, which would result in a reduction to Citi’s net income during the period in which the change is enacted. There have also been recent discussions of more sweeping changes to the U.S. tax system. It is uncertain whether or when any such tax reform proposals will be enacted into law, and whether or how they will affect Citi’s DTAs.Citi’s Interpretation or Application of the Extensive Tax Laws to Which It Is Subject Could Differ from Those of the Relevant Governmental Authorities, Which Could Result in the Payment of Additional Taxes and Penalties.Citi is subject to the various tax laws of the U.S. and its states and municipalities, as well as the numerous foreign jurisdictions in which it operates. These tax laws are inherently complex and Citi must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws to its entities, operations and businesses. Citi’s interpretations and application of the tax laws, including with respect to withholding tax obligations and stamp and other transactional taxes, could differ from that of the relevant governmental taxing authority, which could result in the potential for the payment of additional taxes, penalties or interest, which couldbe material.Citi’s Operational Systems and Networks Have Been, and Will Continue to Be, Subject to an Increasing Risk of Continually Evolving Cybersecurity or Other Technological Risks Which Could Result in the Disclosure of Confidential Client or Customer Information, Damage to Citi’s Reputation, Additional Costs to Citi, Regulatory Penalties and Financial Losses.A significant portion of Citi’s operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information as well as the monitoring of a large number of complex transactions on a minute-by-minute basis.  For example, through its Global Consumer Banking, credit card and securities services businesses, Citi obtains and stores an extensive amount of personal and client-specific information for its retail, corporate and governmental customers and clients and must accurately record and reflect their extensive account transactions. With the evolving proliferation of new technologies and the increasing use of the Internet and mobile devices to conduct financial transactions, large, global financial institutions such as Citi have been, and will continue to be, subject to an increasing risk of cyber incidents from these activities.Citi’s computer systems, software and networks are subject to ongoing cyber incidents such as unauthorized access; loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information); account takeovers; unavailability of service; computer viruses or other malicious code; cyber attacks; and other events. These threats may arise from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. Additional challenges are posed by external parties, including extremist parties and certain foreign state actors that engage in cyber activities as a means to promote political ends. As further evidence of the increasing and potentially significant impact of cyber incidents, during 2014, certain U.S. financial institutions reported cyber incidents affecting their computer systems that resulted in the data of millions of customers being compromised. In addition, several U.S. retailers and other multinational companies reported cyber incidents that compromised customer data. While these incidents did not impact, or did not have a material impact, on Citi, Citi has been subject to other intentional cyber incidents from external sources over the last several years, including (i) denial of service attacks, which attempted to interrupt service to clients and customers; (ii) data breaches, which aimed to obtain unauthorized access to customer account data; and (iii) malicious software attacks on client systems, which attempted to allow unauthorized entrance to Citi’s systems under the guise of a client and the extraction of client data. While Citi’s monitoring and protection services were able to detect and respond to the incidents targeting its systems before they became significant, they still resulted in limited losses in some instances as well as increases in expenditures to monitor against the threat of similar future cyber incidents. There can be no assurance that such cyber incidents will not occur again, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale. Although Citi devotes significant resources to implement, maintain, monitor and regularly upgrade its systems and networks with measures such as intrusion detection and prevention and firewalls to safeguard critical business applications, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can provide absolute security. In addition, because the methods used to cause cyber attacks change frequently or, in some cases, are not recognized until launched, Citi may be unable to implement effective preventive measures or proactively address these methods.If Citi were to be subject to a cyber incident, it could result in the disclosure of confidential client information, damage to Citi’s reputation with its clients and the market, 61customer dissatisfaction, additional costs to Citi (such as repairing systems, replacing customer payment cards or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory penalties, exposure to litigation and other financial losses to both Citi and its clients and customers. Such events could also cause interruptions or malfunctions in the operations of Citi (such as the lack of availability of Citi’s online banking system or mobile banking platform), as well as the operations of its clients, customers or other third parties. Given Citi’s global footprint and the high volume of transactions processed by Citi, certain errors or actions may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified, which would further increase these costs and consequences. Third parties with which Citi does business may also be sources of cybersecurity or other technological risks. Citi outsources certain functions, such as processing customer credit card transactions, uploading content on customer-facing websites, and developing software for new products and services. These relationships allow for the storage and processing of customer information by third-party hosting of or access to Citi websites, which could result in service disruptions or website defacements, and the potential to introduce vulnerable code, resulting in security breaches impacting Citi customers. While Citi engages in certain actions to reduce the exposure resulting from outsourcing, such as performing onsite security control assessments, limiting third-party access to the least privileged level necessary to perform job functions and restricting third-party processing to systems stored within Citi’s data centers, ongoing threats may result in unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data or other cyber incidents with increased costs and consequences to Citi such as those discussed above. Furthermore, because financial institutions are becoming increasingly interconnected with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, including as a result of the derivatives reforms over the last few years, Citi has increased exposure to operational failure or cyber attacks through third parties.While Citi maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions including significant self-insured deductibles, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses.Citi Maintains Co-Branding and Private Label Relationships with Various Retailers and Merchants Within Its U.S. Credit Card Businesses in NA GCB, and the Failure to Maintain These Relationships Could Have a Significant Negative Impact on the Results of Operations or Financial Condition of Those Businesses.Through its U.S. Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services credit card businesses within North America Global Consumer Banking (NA GCB), Citi maintains numerous co-branding and private label relationships with third-party retailers and merchants in the ordinary course of business pursuant to which Citi issues credit cards to customers of the retailers or merchants. Citi’s co-branding and private label agreements provide for shared economics between the parties and generally have a fixed term. Competition among card issuers such as Citi for these relationships is significant and these  agreements may not be extended or renewed by the parties. These agreements could also be terminated due to, among other factors, a breach by Citi of its responsibilities under the applicable agreement, a breach by the retailer or merchant under the agreement, or external factors, including bankruptcies, liquidations, restructurings or consolidations and other similar events that may occur. While various mitigating factors could be available in the event of the loss of one or more of these relationships, such as replacing the retailer or merchant or by Citi offering new card products, the results of operations or financial condition of Citi-branded cards or Citi retail services, as applicable, or NA GCB could be negatively impacted, and the impact could be significant.Citi May Incur Significant Losses If Its Risk Management Models, Processes or Strategies Are Ineffective.Citi employs a broad and diversified set of risk management and mitigation processes and strategies, including the use of various risk models, in analyzing and monitoring the various risks Citi assumes in conducting its activities, such as credit, market and operational risks (for additional information regarding these areas of risk as well as risk management at Citi, see “Managing Global Risk” below). For example, Citi uses models as part of its various stress testing initiatives across the firm. Management of these risks is made even more challenging within a global financial institution such as Citi, particularly given the complex, diverse and rapidly changing financial markets and conditions in which Citi operates.These models, processes and strategies are inherently limited because they involve techniques, including the use of historical data in some circumstances, and judgments that cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome in the markets in which Citi operates nor can they anticipate the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Citi could incur significant losses if its risk management models, processes or strategies are ineffective in properly anticipating or managing these risks. Citi’s Performance and the Performance of Its Individual Businesses Could Be Negatively Impacted If Citi Is Not Able to Hire and Retain Qualified Employees for Any Reason.Citi’s performance and the performance of its individual businesses is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled employees. Specifically, Citi’s continued ability to compete in its businesses, to manage its businesses effectively and to continue to execute its overall global strategy depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its existing employees. Citi’s ability to attract and retain employees depends on numerous factors, including its culture, compensation, the management and leadership of the company as well as its individual businesses, Citi’s presence in the particular market or region at issue and the professional opportunities it offers. The banking industry has and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation, clawback requirements and special taxation. Moreover, given its continued focus on the emerging markets, 62Citi is often competing for qualified employees in these markets with entities that have a significantly greater presence in the region or are not subject to significant regulatory restrictions on the structure of incentive compensation. If Citi is unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees for any reason, Citi’s performance, including its competitive position, the successful execution of its overall strategy and its results of operations could be negatively impacted.Incorrect Assumptions or Estimates in Citi’s Financial Statements Could Cause Significant Unexpected Losses in the Future, and Changes to Financial Accounting and Reporting Standards or Interpretations Could Have a Material Impact on How Citi Records and Reports Its Financial Condition and Results of Operations.Citi is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing its financial statements under U.S. GAAP, including determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and regulatory exposures, valuation of DTAs and the fair values of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If Citi’s assumptions or estimates underlying its financial statements are incorrect or differ from actual future events, Citi could experience unexpected losses, some of which could be significant.Moreover, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) is currently reviewing, or has proposed or issued, changes to several financial accounting and reporting standards that govern key aspects of Citi’s financial statements or interpretations thereof, including those areas where Citi is required to make assumptions or estimates. For example, the FASB has proposed a new accounting model intended to require earlier recognition of credit losses on financial instruments. The proposed accounting model would require that lifetime “expected credit losses” on financial assets not recorded at fair value through net income, such as loans and held-to-maturity securities, be recorded at inception of the financial asset, replacing the multiple existing impairment models under U.S. GAAP which generally require that a loss be “incurred” before it is recognized. For additional information on this and other proposed changes, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Changes to financial accounting or reporting standards or interpretations, whether promulgated or required by the FASB or other regulators, could present operational challenges and could require Citi to change certain of the assumptions or estimates it previously used in preparing its financial statements, which could negatively impact how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations generally and/or with respect to particular businesses. In addition, the FASB is seeking to converge U.S. GAAP with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) to the extent IFRS provides an improvement to accounting standards. Any transition to IFRS could further have a material impact on how Citi records and reports its financial results. For additional information on the key areas for which assumptions and estimates are used in preparing Citi’s financial statements, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below and Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  63Managing Global Risk Table of ContentsMANAGING GLOBAL RISK