RISK FACTORSThe following discussion sets forth what management currently believes could be the most significant risks and uncertainties that could impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Other risks and uncertainties, including those not currently known to Citi or its management, could also negatively impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Thus, the following should not be considered a complete discussion of all of the risks and uncertainties Citi may face.REGULATORY RISKSCiti’s Inability to Enhance Its 2015 Resolution Plan Submission Could Subject It to More Stringent Capital, Leverage or Liquidity Requirements, or Restrictions on Its Growth, Activities or Operations, and Could Eventually Require Citi to Divest Assets or Operations.Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act requires Citi to annually prepare and submit a plan to the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC for the orderly resolution of Citigroup (the bank holding company), and its significant legal entities, under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or other applicable insolvency law in the event of future material financial distress or failure (Title I Resolution Plan). The Title I Resolution Plan requires significant effort, time and cost across all of Citi’s businesses and geographies, and is subject to review by the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC. Under Title I, if the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC jointly determine that Citi’s 2015 Title I Resolution Plan is not “credible” (which, although not defined, is generally believed to mean the regulators do not believe the plan is feasible or would otherwise allow the regulators to resolve Citi in a way that protects systemically important functions without severe systemic disruption), or would not facilitate an orderly resolution of Citi under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and Citi fails to resubmit a resolution plan that remedies any identified deficiencies, Citi could be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, or restrictions on its growth, activities or operations. If within two years from the imposition of any requirements or restrictions Citi has still not remediated any identified deficiencies, then Citi could eventually be required to divest certain assets or operations. Any such restrictions or actions would negatively impact Citi’s reputation, market and investor perception, operations and strategy.In August 2014, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC announced the completion of reviews of the 2013 Title I Resolution Plans submitted by Citi and 10 other financial institutions. The agencies identified shortcomings with the firms’ 2013 Title I Resolution Plans, including Citi’s. These shortcomings generally included (i) assumptions that the agencies regarded as unrealistic or inadequately supported, such as assumptions about the likely behavior of customers, counterparties, investors, central clearing facilities and regulators; and (ii) the failure to make, or identify, the kinds of changes in firm structure and practices that would be necessary to enhance the prospects for orderly resolution.  Significantly, the FDIC determined that the 2013 Title I Resolution Plans submitted by the 11 institutions, including Citi, were “not credible” and did not facilitate an orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The Federal Reserve Board determined that the plans of the 11 institutions were required to take immediate action to improve their resolvability and reflect those improvements in their 2015 plans. At the same time, the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC indicated that if the identified shortcomings were not addressed in the 2015 Title I Resolution Plan submissions, the agencies expected to use their authority under Title I, as discussed above. Like other similarly-situated institutions, Citi submitted its 2015 Title I Resolution Plan on July 1, 2015 and the industry has not yet received a formal response from the regulators.Citi’s Ability to Return Capital to Shareholders Substantially Depends on the CCAR Process and the Results of Regulatory Stress Tests. In addition to Board of Directors’ approval, any decision by Citi to return capital to shareholders, whether through an increase in its common stock dividend or through a share repurchase program, substantially depends on regulatory approval, including through the CCAR process required by the Federal Reserve Board and the supervisory stress tests required under the Dodd-Frank Act. In March 2014, the Federal Reserve Board announced that it objected to the capital plan submitted by Citi as part of the 2014 CCAR process, meaning Citi was not able to increase its return of capital to shareholders as it had requested. Restrictions on Citi’s ability to return capital to shareholders as a result of the 2014 CCAR process negatively impacted market and investor perceptions of Citi, and continued restrictions could do so in the future.Citi’s ability to accurately predict or explain to stakeholders the outcome of the CCAR process, and thus address any such market or investor perceptions, is difficult as the Federal Reserve Board’s assessment of Citi is conducted not only by using the Board’s proprietary stress test models, but also a number of qualitative factors, including a detailed assessment of Citi’s “capital adequacy process,” as defined by the Federal Reserve Board. These qualitative factors were cited by the Federal Reserve Board in its objection to Citi’s 2014 capital plan, and the Board has stated that it expects leading capital adequacy practices will continue to evolve and will likely be determined by the Board each year as a result of its cross-firm review of capital plan submissions.Similarly, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that, as part of its stated goal to continually evolve its annual stress testing requirements, several parameters of the annual stress testing process may be altered from time to time, including the severity of the stress test scenario, Federal Reserve Board modeling of Citi’s balance sheet and the addition of components deemed important by the Federal Reserve Board (e.g., a counterparty failure). In addition, the Federal Reserve Board indicated that it may consider that some or all of Citi’s GSIB surcharge be integrated into its post-stress test minimum capital requirements. These parameter and other alterations could further increase the level of capital Citi must meet as 54part of the stress tests, thus potentially impacting the level of capital returns to shareholders.Further, because it is not clear how the Federal Reserve Board’s proprietary stress test models may differ from the modeling techniques employed by Citi, it is possible that Citi’s stress test results (using its own models, estimation methodologies and processes) may not be consistent with those disclosed by the Federal Reserve Board, thus potentially leading to additional confusion and impacts to Citi’s perception in the market.Citi, Its Management and Businesses Must Continually Review, Analyze and Successfully Adapt to Ongoing Regulatory Changes and Uncertainties in the U.S. and Globally. Despite the adoption of final regulations in numerous areas impacting Citi and its businesses over the past several years, including final U.S. Basel III capital rules, certain derivatives reforms and restrictions on proprietary trading under the Volcker Rule, Citi, its management and businesses continually face ongoing regulatory changes and uncertainties, both in the U.S. and globally. While the areas of ongoing regulatory changes and uncertainties facing Citi are too numerous to list completely, various examples include, but are not limited to: (i) limits on the level of credit risk Citi may have against certain counterparties; (ii) potential changes to various aspects of the regulatory capital framework applicable to Citi (see “Capital Resources—Regulatory Capital Standards Developments” above); (iii) financial transaction taxes and/or other types of increased fees on financial institutions; (iv) international versions of the Volcker Rule and bank structural reforms; (v) whether and to what extent the European Union and CFTC will render any “equivalency” determinations or regulatory acknowledgment of the equivalency of derivatives regimes; (vi) U.S. and international requirements relating to sanctions against Russia, Iran and other countries; and (vii) the U.S. banking agencies’ rules relating to the net stable funding ratio, or NSFR (see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below). There may also be regulatory changes not yet contemplated, or changes that have been proposed which could take a dramatically different form upon finalization. Moreover, certain recent regulatory changes, while final, remain in the implementation period, and it remains uncertain what ultimate impact such changes will have on Citi’s businesses, results of operations or financial condition. For example, in October and December 2015, the U.S. banking regulators and CFTC, respectively, adopted final rules relating to margin requirements for uncleared swaps. The final rules, which have a three-year phase-in period beginning on September 1, 2016, will require Citi to both collect and post margin to counterparties, as well as collect and post margin to certain of its affiliates, in connection with any uncleared swap, with the initial margin required to be held by unaffiliated third-party custodians. While Citi continues to work through the implications of the final rules, it is likely these requirements will significantly increase the cost to Citi and its counterparties of conducting uncleared swaps and impact its current inter-affiliate swap practices (e.g., require clearing of  more inter-affiliate swaps and/or enter into risk management swaps with third parties). Ongoing regulatory changes and uncertainties make Citi’s and its management’s long-term business, balance sheet and budget planning difficult or subject to change, and can negatively impact Citi’s results of operations, financial condition and, potentially, its strategy or organizational structure. In addition, in many cases, business planning is required to be based on possible or proposed rules, requirements or outcomes and is further complicated by management’s continual need to review and evaluate the impact on Citi’s businesses of ongoing rule proposals, final rules and implementation guidance from numerous regulatory bodies worldwide, which such guidance can change. Moreover, in many instances U.S. and international regulatory initiatives have not been undertaken or implemented on a coordinated basis, and areas of divergence have developed with respect to the scope, interpretation, timing, structure or approach, leading to inconsistent or even conflicting regulations, including within a single jurisdiction. Regulatory changes have also significantly increased Citi’s compliance risks and costs (see “Compliance, Conduct and Legal Risks” below).CREDIT AND MARKET RISKSCiti’s Results of Operations Could Be Negatively Impacted as Its Revolving Home Equity Lines of Credit Continue to “Reset.”As of December 31, 2015, Citi’s home equity loan portfolio included approximately $12.3 billion of home equity lines of credit that were still within their revolving period and had not commenced amortization, or “reset” (Revolving HELOCs). Of these Revolving HELOCs, approximately 66% will commence amortization during 2016 and 2017 (for additional information, see “Managing Global Risk—Credit Risk—Consumer Credit” below).Before commencing amortization, Revolving HELOC borrowers are required to pay only interest on their loans. Upon amortization, these borrowers are required to pay both interest, usually at a variable rate, and principal that typically amortizes over 20 years, rather than the typical 30-year amortization. As a result, Citi’s customers with Revolving HELOCs that reset could experience “payment shock” due to the higher required payments on the loans. Increases in interest rates could further increase these payments, given the variable nature of the interest rates on these loans post-reset.Citi has experienced a higher 30+ days past due delinquency rate on its amortizing home equity loans as compared to its total outstanding home equity loan portfolio (amortizing and non-amortizing). Moreover, resets to date have generally occurred during a period of historically low interest rates, which Citi believes has likely reduced the overall payment shock to borrowers. While Citi continues to monitor this reset risk closely and will continue to consider any potential impact in determining its allowance for loan loss reserves, as well as review and take additional actions to offset potential reset risk, increasing interest rates, stricter lending criteria and high borrower loan-to-value positions could limit 55Citi’s ability to reduce or mitigate this reset risk going forward. Accordingly, as these loans further reset during 2016 and 2017, Citi could continue to experience higher delinquency rates as well as increased loan loss reserves and net credit losses in future periods, which could negatively impact its results of operations.Macroeconomic and Geopolitical Challenges Globally Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Businesses and Results of Operations.Citi has experienced, and could experience in the future, negative impacts to its businesses and results of operations as a result of macroeconomic and geopolitical challenges, uncertainties and volatility. Energy and other commodity prices significantly deteriorated during the second half of 2015 and into 2016, which has impacted various financial markets, countries and industries. Global economic growth remains uneven and uncertain. Various regions or countries, including certain emerging markets, have experienced slower or no growth and volatility, whether due to macroeconomic conditions or geopolitical tensions, governmental or regulatory policies or economic conditions within the particular region or country. For example, the economic and fiscal situations of several European countries remain fragile, and geopolitical tensions throughout the region, including in Russia and the Middle East, have added to the uncertainties. While concerns relating to sovereign defaults or a partial or complete break-up of the European Monetary Union (EMU), including potential accompanying redenomination risks and uncertainties, seemed to have abated somewhat in recent years, concerns and uncertainties have surfaced in Europe over the potential exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union in 2016. In addition, governmental fiscal and monetary actions, or expected actions, have impacted the volatilities of global financial markets and foreign exchange rates. These and other global macroeconomic and geopolitical challenges, uncertainties and volatilities have impacted, and could continue to negatively impact, Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition, including its credit costs, revenues in its Markets and securities services and other businesses, and AOCI (which can in turn negatively impact Citi’s book and tangible book value). Further, if the economic situation in a non-U.S. jurisdiction where Citi operates were to deteriorate below a certain level, U.S. regulators can and have imposed mandatory loan loss and other reserve requirements on Citi, which could negatively impact its cost of credit and earnings, perhaps significantly.Citi’s Significant Presence in the Emerging Markets Subjects It to Various Risks as well as Increased Compliance and Regulatory Risks and Costs.During 2015, emerging markets revenues accounted for approximately 41% of Citi’s total revenues (for additional information on how Citi defines the emerging markets as well as its exposures in certain of these markets, see “Managing Global Risk—Country Risk” below).Citi’s significant presence in the emerging markets subjects it to a number of risks, including sovereign volatility,  political events, foreign exchange controls, limitations on foreign investment, sociopolitical instability (including from hyper-inflation), fraud, nationalization or loss of licenses, business restrictions, sanctions or asset freezes, potential criminal charges, closure of branches or subsidiaries and confiscation of assets. For example, Citi operates in several countries that have, or have had in the recent past, strict foreign exchange controls, such as Argentina and Venezuela, that limit its ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars and/or transfer funds outside the country. Citi has also previously discovered fraud in certain emerging markets in which it operates in prior years. Political turmoil and other instability have occurred in certain countries, such as in Russia, Ukraine and the Middle East, which have required management time and attention (e.g., monitoring the impact of sanctions on the Russian economy as well as Citi’s businesses and results of operations). Citi’s emerging markets presence also increases its compliance and regulatory risks and costs. For example, Citi’s operations in emerging markets, including facilitating cross-border transactions on behalf of its clients, subject it to higher compliance risks under U.S. regulations primarily focused on various aspects of global corporate activities, such as anti-money-laundering regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These risks can be more acute in less developed markets and thus require substantial investment in compliance infrastructure or could result in a reduction in certain of Citi’s business activities. Any failure by Citi to comply with applicable U.S. regulations, as well as the regulations in the countries and markets in which it operates as a result of its global footprint, could result in fines, penalties, injunctions or other similar restrictions, any of which could negatively impact Citi’s results of operations and its reputation.Concentrations of Risk Can Increase the Potential for Citi to Incur Significant Losses. Concentrations of risk, particularly credit and market risk, can increase Citi’s risk of significant losses. As of December 31, 2015, Citi’s most significant concentration of credit risk was with the U.S. government and its agencies, which primarily results from trading assets and investments issued by the U.S. government and its agencies (for additional information, see Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Citi also routinely executes a high volume of securities, trading, derivative and foreign exchange transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including banks, insurance companies, investment banks, government and central banks and other financial institutions. To the extent regulatory or market developments lead to increased centralization of trading activity through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges, this could also increase Citi’s concentration of risk in this industry. Concentrations of risk can limit, and have limited, the effectiveness of Citi’s hedging strategies and have caused Citi to incur significant losses, and they may do so again in the future.56LIQUIDITY RISKSThe Federal Reserve Board’s Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity Proposal Includes Uncertainties and Potential Operational Difficulties That Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Funding and Liquidity, Costs of Funds and Results of Operations. Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act grants the FDIC the authority, under certain circumstances, to resolve systemically important financial institutions, including Citi. The FDIC has released a notice describing its preferred “single point of entry strategy” for such resolution, pursuant to which, generally, a bank holding company would be placed in receivership, the unsecured long-term debt of the holding company would bear losses and the operating subsidiaries would be recapitalized. Consistent with this strategy, in November 2015, the Federal Reserve Board issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to require GSIBs, including Citi, to (i) issue and maintain minimum levels of external “total loss-absorbing capacity” (TLAC) and long-term debt (LTD), and (ii) adhere to various “clean holding company” requirements at the bank holding company level, including a prohibition on third-party short-term borrowings, derivatives and other qualified financial contracts and certain guarantees, as well as a limit on other non-TLAC eligible liabilities, such as structured notes and other operating liabilities. While not included in its proposed requirements, the Federal Reserve Board also indicated it was considering additional domestic internal TLAC requirements for U.S. GSIBs which could require, among other things, the “pre-positioning” of specified amounts of TLAC to certain material subsidiaries of the bank holding company (for a summary of the TLAC proposal, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below). There are significant uncertainties and interpretive issues arising from the Federal Reserve Board’s proposal. With respect to the minimum external LTD and TLAC requirements, the proposal would disqualify from eligible LTD securities that permit acceleration for reasons other than insolvency or non-payment of principal or interest as well as securities not governed by U.S. law. Consistent with industry standards, the vast majority of Citi’s otherwise eligible outstanding LTD provides for acceleration in circumstances other than those permitted by the proposal. Additionally, Citi has outstanding a significant amount of LTD not governed by U.S. law but which would otherwise be eligible to count towards the minimum external LTD requirement. Accordingly, if the requirements are adopted as proposed, and no “grandfathering” of existing outstanding LTD is provided, Citi could be required to refinance or issue significant amounts of additional debt, simultaneously with other GSIBs impacted by the requirements. Further, such ineligible debt securities would count against the limit imposed on non-TLAC liabilities imposed under the clean holding company requirements of the proposal, likely resulting in the need to repurchase significant amounts of Citi’s outstanding debt in order not to be in breach of such limitations. Any of these actions could negatively and significantly impact Citi’s funding and liquidity management and planning, operations and costs of funds.  The clean holding company requirements pose additional operational challenges and uncertainties. Citi, like many bank holding companies, often guarantees the obligations of its subsidiaries, which guarantees include a default right linked to the insolvency of Citi (i.e., downstream guarantees with cross-default provisions). With no grandfathering of such guarantees contemplated by the proposal, restructuring, revising or replacing the extensive number of guarantees outstanding in order to meet the clean holding company requirements could be costly and expose Citi to legal risk. Further, the potential consequences of breaching the proposed clean holding company requirements, as well as the consequences of not meeting many of the other requirements in the Federal Reserve Board’s proposal, are not clear, including what would be required to cure and the timeframe to do so. In addition, any requirement to pre-position TLAC-eligible instruments with material subsidiaries could result in additional funding inefficiencies, increase Citi’s overall minimum TLAC requirements by reducing the fungibility of its funding sources and require certain of Citi’s subsidiaries to replace lower cost funding with other higher cost funding, which would further impede Citi’s funding and liquidity management and planning, costs of funds and results of operations.The Maintenance of Adequate Liquidity and Funding Depends on Numerous Factors, Including Those Outside of Citi’s Control, Such as Market Disruptions and Increases in Citi’s Credit Spreads.As a global financial institution, adequate liquidity and sources of funding are essential to Citi’s businesses. Citi’s liquidity and sources of funding can be significantly and negatively impacted by factors it cannot control, such as general disruptions in the financial markets, governmental fiscal and monetary policies, regulatory changes or negative investor perceptions of Citi’s creditworthiness.In addition, Citi’s cost and ability to obtain deposits, secured funding and long-term unsecured funding are directly related to its credit spreads. Changes in credit spreads constantly occur and are market driven, including both external market factors and factors specific to Citi, and can be highly volatile. Citi’s credit spreads may also be influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to Citi’s long-term debt, which are also impacted by these external and Citi-specific factors. Moreover, Citi’s ability to obtain funding may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to access the markets at the same time, or if market appetite is reduced, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. In addition, clearing organizations, regulators, clients and financial institutions with which Citi interacts may exercise the right to require additional collateral based on these market perceptions or market conditions, which could further impair Citi’s access to and cost of funding.As a holding company, Citi relies on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividends as well as to satisfy its debt and other obligations. Several of Citi’s U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are or may be 57subject to capital adequacy or other regulatory or contractual restrictions on their ability to provide such payments, including any local regulatory stress test requirements or potential domestic internal TLAC requirements (as discussed above). Limitations on the payments that Citi receives from its subsidiaries could also impact its liquidity. The Credit Rating Agencies Continuously Review the Credit Ratings of Citi and Certain of Its Subsidiaries, and Ratings Downgrades Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Funding and Liquidity Due to Reduced Funding Capacity and Increased Funding Costs, Including Derivatives Triggers That Could Require Cash Obligations or Collateral Requirements. The credit rating agencies, such as Fitch, Moody’s and S&P, continuously evaluate Citi and certain of its subsidiaries, and their ratings of Citi and its more significant subsidiaries’ long-term/senior debt and short-term/commercial paper, as applicable, are based on a number of factors, including standalone financial strength, as well as factors not entirely within the control of Citi and its subsidiaries, such as the agencies’ proprietary rating agency methodologies and assumptions and conditions affecting the financial services industry and markets generally.Citi and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their current respective ratings. Ratings downgrades could negatively impact Citi’s ability to access the capital markets and other sources of funds as well as the costs of those funds, and its ability to maintain certain deposits. A ratings downgrade could also have a negative impact on Citi’s funding and liquidity due to reduced funding capacity, including derivative triggers, which could take the form of cash obligations and collateral requirements. In addition, a ratings downgrade could also have a negative impact on other funding sources, such as secured financing and other margined transactions for which there are no explicit triggers, as well as on contractual provisions, which contain minimum ratings thresholds in order for Citi to hold third-party funds.Moreover, credit ratings downgrades can have impacts, which may not be currently known to Citi or which are not possible to quantify. For example, some entities may have ratings limitations as to their permissible counterparties, of which Citi may or may not be aware. In addition, certain of Citi’s corporate customers and trading counterparties, among other clients, could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi and limit the trading of certain contracts or market instruments with Citi in response to ratings downgrades. Changes in customer and counterparty behavior could impact not only Citi’s funding and liquidity but also the results of operations of certain Citi businesses. For additional information on the potential impact of a reduction in Citi’s or Citibank, N.A.’s credit ratings, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below. OPERATIONAL RISKSCiti Has Co-Branding and Private Label Credit Card Relationships with Various Retailers and Merchants and the Failure to Maintain These Relationships or the Renewal of These Relationships on Less Favorable Terms Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Results of Operations or Financial Condition.Through its Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services credit card businesses, Citi has co-branding and private label relationships with various retailers and merchants globally in the ordinary course of business whereby Citi issues credit cards to customers of the retailers or merchants. Citi’s co-branding and private label agreements provide for shared economics between the parties and generally have a fixed term. The five largest relationships constituted an aggregate of approximately 10% of Citi’s revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015.Competition among card issuers, including Citi, for these relationships is significant. As a result, Citi may not be able to renew these relationships, or the relationships may be renewed on terms substantially less favorable to Citi’s credit card businesses. These relationships could also be negatively impacted due to, among other things, operational difficulties of the retailer or merchant, termination due to a breach by Citi, the retailer or merchant of its responsibilities, or external factors, including bankruptcies, liquidations, restructurings, consolidations and other similar events. While various mitigating factors could be available to Citi if any of these events were to occur - such as by replacing the retailer or merchant or offering new card products - such events could negatively impact Citi’s results of operations or financial condition. Citi’s Operational Systems and Networks Have Been, and Will Continue to Be, Subject to an Increasing Risk of Continually Evolving Cybersecurity or Other Technological Risks Which Could Result in the Theft, Loss, Misuse or Disclosure of Confidential Client or Customer Information, Damage to Citi’s Reputation, Additional Costs to Citi, Regulatory Penalties, Legal Exposure and Financial Losses.A significant portion of Citi’s operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information as well as the monitoring of a large number of complex transactions on a minute-by-minute basis. For example, through its Global Consumer Banking, credit card and securities services businesses, Citi obtains and stores an extensive amount of personal and client-specific information for its retail, corporate and governmental customers and clients and must accurately record and reflect their extensive account transactions. With the evolving proliferation of new technologies and the increasing use of the Internet and mobile devices to conduct financial transactions, large, global financial institutions such as Citi have been, and will continue to be, subject to an increasing risk of cyber incidents from these activities.Citi’s computer systems, software and networks are subject to ongoing cyber incidents such as unauthorized access; loss or destruction of data (including confidential 58client information); account takeovers; unavailability of service; computer viruses or other malicious code; cyber attacks; and other events. These threats arise from numerous sources, not all of which are in Citi’s control, including among others human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, accidental technological failure, electrical or telecommunication outages, failures of computer servers or other damage to Citi’s property or assets, natural disasters or severe weather conditions, health emergencies or pandemics, or outbreaks of hostilities or terrorist acts. Additional challenges are posed by external parties, including extremist parties and certain foreign state actors that engage in cyber activities as a means to promote political ends. As further evidence of the increasing and potentially significant impact of cyber incidents, during 2015, the U.S. government as well as several multinational companies reported cyber incidents affecting their computer systems that resulted in the data of millions of customers and employees being compromised. In addition, in recent years several U.S. retailers and financial institutions and other multinational companies reported cyber incidents that compromised customer data.While Citi has not been materially impacted by these reported or other cyber incidents, Citi has been subject to other intentional cyber incidents from external sources over the last several years, including (i) denial of service attacks, which attempted to interrupt service to clients and customers; (ii) data breaches, which obtained unauthorized access to customer account data; and (iii) malicious software attacks on client systems, which attempted to allow unauthorized entrance to Citi’s systems under the guise of a client and the extraction of client data. While Citi’s monitoring and protection services were able to detect and respond to the incidents targeting its systems before they became significant, they still resulted in limited losses in some instances as well as increases in expenditures to monitor against the threat of similar future cyber incidents. There can be no assurance that such cyber incidents will not occur again, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale.Although Citi devotes significant resources to implement, maintain, monitor and regularly upgrade its systems and networks with measures such as intrusion detection and prevention and firewalls to safeguard critical business applications, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can provide absolute security. In addition, because the methods used to cause cyber attacks change frequently or, in some cases, are not recognized until launched, Citi may be unable to implement effective preventive measures or proactively address these methods until they are discovered.If Citi were to be subject to a cyber incident, it could result in the disclosure of personal, confidential or proprietary client information, damage to Citi’s reputation with its clients and the market, customer dissatisfaction, additional costs to Citi (such as repairing systems, replacing customer payment cards or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory penalties, exposure to litigation and other financial losses to both Citi and its clients and customers. Such events could also cause interruptions or malfunctions in the  operations of Citi (such as the lack of availability of Citi’s online banking system or mobile banking platform), as well as the operations of its clients, customers or other third parties. Given Citi’s global footprint and the high volume of transactions processed by Citi, certain errors or actions may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified, which would further increase these costs and consequences.Third parties with which Citi does business, as well as retailers and other third parties with which Citi’s customers do business, may also be sources of cybersecurity or other operational and technological risks, particularly where activities of customers are beyond Citi’s security and control systems. Citi outsources certain functions, such as processing customer credit card transactions, uploading content on customer-facing websites, and developing software for new products and services. These relationships allow for the storage and processing of customer information by third-party hosting of or access to Citi websites, which could result in service disruptions or website defacements, a risk the confidentiality, privacy and security of data held by third parties may be compromised and the potential to introduce vulnerable code, resulting in security breaches impacting Citi customers. While Citi engages in certain actions to reduce the exposure resulting from outsourcing, such as performing onsite security control assessments and limiting third-party access to the least privileged level necessary to perform job functions, ongoing threats may result in unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data or other cyber incidents with increased costs and consequences to Citi such as those discussed above. Furthermore, because financial institutions are becoming increasingly interconnected with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, including as a result of the derivatives reforms over the last few years, Citi has increased exposure to operational failure or cyber attacks through third parties.While Citi maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions including significant self-insured deductibles, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses.Citi’s Ability to Utilize Its DTAs, and Thus Reduce the Negative Impact of the DTAs on Citi’s Regulatory Capital, Will Be Driven by Its Ability to Generate U.S. Taxable Income.At December 31, 2015, Citi’s net DTAs were approximately $47.8 billion, of which approximately $31.0 billion was excluded from Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, on a fully implemented basis, under the U.S. Basel III rules (for additional information, see “Capital Resources—Components of Citigroup Capital Under Basel III (Advanced Approaches with Full Implementation)” above). In addition, of the net DTAs as of year-end 2015, approximately $15.9 billion related to foreign tax credit carry-forwards (FTCs). The carry-forward utilization period for FTCs is 10 years and represents the most time-sensitive component of Citi’s DTAs. Of the FTCs at year-end 2015, approximately $4.8 billion expire in 2018 and the remaining $11.1 billion expire over the period of 592019-2025. Citi must utilize any FTCs generated in the then-current year tax return prior to utilizing any carry-forward FTCs.The accounting treatment for realization of DTAs, including FTCs, is complex and requires significant judgment and estimates regarding future taxable earnings in the jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise and available tax planning strategies. Citi’s ability to utilize its DTAs, including the FTC components, and thus use the capital supporting the DTAs for more productive purposes, will be dependent upon Citi’s ability to generate U.S. taxable income in the relevant tax carry-forward periods. Failure to realize any portion of the DTAs would also have a corresponding negative impact on Citi’s net income.In addition, with regard to FTCs, utilization will be influenced by actions to optimize U.S. taxable earnings for the purpose of consuming the FTC carry-forward component of the DTAs prior to expiration. These FTC actions, however, may serve to increase the DTAs for other less time sensitive components. Moreover, tax return limitations on FTCs and general business credits that cause Citi to incur current tax expense, notwithstanding its tax carry-forward position, could impact the rate of overall DTA utilization. DTA utilization will also continue to be driven by movements in Citi’s AOCI, which can be impacted by changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.For additional information on Citi’s DTAs, including the FTCs, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Income Taxes” below and Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Citi’s Interpretation or Application of the Extensive Tax Laws to Which It Is Subject Could Differ from Those of the Relevant Governmental Authorities, Which Could Result in the Payment of Additional Taxes, Penalties or Interest.Citi is subject to the various tax laws of the U.S. and its states and municipalities, as well as the numerous foreign jurisdictions in which it operates. These tax laws are inherently complex and Citi must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws to its entities, operations and businesses. Citi’s interpretations and application of the tax laws, including with respect to withholding tax obligations and stamp and other transactional taxes, could differ from that of the relevant governmental taxing authority, which could result in the potential for the payment of additional taxes, penalties or interest, which could be material.The Value of Citi’s DTAs Could Be Significantly Reduced if Corporate Tax Rates in the U.S. or Certain State, Local or Foreign Jurisdictions Decline or as a Result of Other Changes in the U.S. Corporate Tax System.There have been discussions regarding decreasing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate. Similar discussions have taken place in certain local, state and foreign jurisdictions. While Citi may benefit in some respects from any decrease in corporate tax rates, a reduction in the U.S. federal, or state, local or foreign corporate tax rates could result in a decrease, perhaps significant, in the value of Citi’s DTAs, which would result in  a reduction to Citi’s net income during the period in which the change is enacted. There have also been recent discussions of more sweeping changes to the U.S. tax system. It is uncertain whether or when any such tax reform proposals will be enacted into law, and whether or how they will affect Citi’s DTAs.If Citi’s Risk Models Are Ineffective or Require Modification or Enhancement, Citi Could Incur Significant Losses or Its Regulatory Capital and Capital Ratios Could Be Negatively Impacted. Citi utilizes models extensively as part of its risk management and mitigation strategies, including in analyzing and monitoring the various risks Citi assumes in conducting its activities. For example, Citi uses models as part of its various stress testing initiatives across the firm. Management of these risks is made even more challenging within a global financial institution such as Citi, particularly given the complex, diverse and rapidly changing financial markets and conditions in which Citi operates.These models and strategies are inherently limited because they involve techniques, including the use of historical data in many circumstances, and judgments that cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome in the markets in which Citi operates, nor can they anticipate the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Citi could incur significant losses if its risk management models or strategies are ineffective in properly anticipating or managing these risks.Moreover, Citi’s Basel III regulatory capital models, including its credit, market and operational risk models, continue to be subject to ongoing regulatory review and approval, which may result in refinements, modifications or enhancements (required or otherwise) to these models. Modifications or requirements resulting from these ongoing reviews, as well as any future changes or guidance provided by the U.S. banking agencies regarding the regulatory capital framework applicable to Citi, have resulted in, and could continue to result in, significant changes to Citi’s risk-weighted assets, total leverage exposure or other components of Citi’s capital ratios. These changes can negatively impact Citi’s capital ratios and its ability to achieve its regulatory capital requirements as it projects or as required. Citi Must Continually Pursue Expense Management and Its Investments in Its Businesses May Not Be as Successful as Citi Projects or Expects. Citi continues to pursue its disciplined expense management strategy, including ongoing repositioning and efficiency targets. However, there is no guarantee that Citi will be able to maintain or reduce its level of expenses as a result of its repositioning actions, efficiency initiatives or otherwise. Moreover, Citi’s ability to maintain or reduce its expenses in part depends on factors which it cannot control, such as ongoing regulatory changes, continued higher regulatory and compliance costs, legal and regulatory proceedings and inquiries and macroeconomic conditions, among others. In addition, investments Citi has made, or may make, in its businesses or operations, such as those in technology systems 60or in its U.S. credit card businesses, may not be as productive or effective as Citi expects or at all. Citi’s Ability to Continue to Wind-Down Citi Holdings Largely Depends on Factors Outside Its Control.  While Citi made significant progress in continuing to wind-down Citi Holdings in 2015, and Citi expects to maintain Citi Holdings at or above “break even” in 2016, as of December 31, 2015, the remaining assets in Citi Holdings largely consisted of North America legacy consumer mortgages, of which approximately 50% consisted of home equity loans for which a market for sales has not yet developed. Accordingly, sales of the remaining mortgage assets will largely continue to be subject to ongoing run-off, market appetite and/or opportunistic sales. As a result, the remaining assets in Citi Holdings will not likely decrease as significantly as in prior years and could continue to have a negative impact on Citi’s risk-weighted assets. Citi’s Performance and the Performance of Its Individual Businesses Could Be Negatively Impacted if Citi Is Not Able to Hire and Retain Highly Qualified Employees for Any Reason.Citi’s performance and the performance of its individual businesses is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled employees. Specifically, Citi’s continued ability to compete in its businesses, to manage its businesses effectively and to continue to execute its overall global strategy depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its existing employees. If Citi is unable to continue to attract and retain the most highly qualified employees for any reason, Citi’s performance, including its competitive position, the successful execution of its overall strategy and its results of operations could be negatively impacted.Citi’s ability to attract and retain employees depends on numerous factors, some of which are outside of its control. For example, given the heightened regulatory and political environment in which Citi operates relative to competitors for talent both within and outside of the financial services area, it may be more difficult for Citi to hire or retain highly qualified employees in the future. Other factors that impact Citi’s ability to attract and retain employees include its culture, compensation, the management and leadership of the company as well as its individual businesses, Citi’s presence in the particular market or region at issue and the professional opportunities it offers. Generally, the banking industry is subject to more stringent regulation of executive and employee compensation than other industries, including deferral and clawback requirements for incentive compensation and other limitations. Citi often competes in the market for talent with entities that are not subject to such significant regulatory restrictions on the structure of incentive compensation.  Incorrect Assumptions or Estimates in Citi’s Financial Statements Could Cause Significant Unexpected Losses in the Future, and Changes to Financial Accounting and Reporting Standards or Interpretations Could Have a Material Impact on How Citi Records and Reports Its Financial Condition and Results of Operations.Citi is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing its financial statements under U.S. GAAP, including determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and regulatory exposures, valuation of DTAs and the fair values of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If Citi’s assumptions or estimates underlying its financial statements are incorrect or differ from actual future events, Citi could experience unexpected losses, some of which could be significant.Moreover, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) is currently reviewing, or has proposed or issued, changes to several financial accounting and reporting standards that govern key aspects of Citi’s financial statements or interpretations thereof, including those areas where Citi is required to make assumptions or estimates. For example, the FASB has proposed a new accounting model intended to require earlier recognition of credit losses on financial instruments. The proposed accounting model would require that lifetime “expected credit losses” on financial assets not recorded at fair value through net income, such as loans and held-to-maturity securities, be recorded at inception of the financial asset, replacing the multiple existing impairment models under U.S. GAAP which generally require that a loss be “incurred” before it is recognized (for additional information on this and other proposed changes, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).Changes to financial accounting or reporting standards or interpretations, whether promulgated or required by the FASB or other regulators, could present operational challenges and could require Citi to change certain of the assumptions or estimates it previously used in preparing its financial statements, which could negatively impact how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations generally and/or with respect to particular businesses. For additional information on the key areas for which assumptions and estimates are used in preparing Citi’s financial statements, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below and Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.61COMPLIANCE, CONDUCT AND LEGAL RISKS Ongoing Implementation and Interpretation of Regulatory Changes and Requirements in the U.S. and Globally Have Increased Citi’s Compliance Risks and Costs.As referenced above, over the past several years, Citi has been required to implement a significant number of regulatory changes across all of its businesses and functions, and these changes continue. In some cases, Citi’s implementation of a regulatory requirement is occurring simultaneously with changing or conflicting regulatory guidance, legal challenges or legislative action to modify or repeal final rules. Moreover, in many cases, these are entirely new regulatory requirements or regimes, resulting in much uncertainty regarding regulatory expectations as to what is definitely required in order to be in compliance with the requirements. Accompanying this compliance uncertainty is heightened regulatory scrutiny and expectations in the U.S. and globally for the financial services industry with respect to governance and risk management practices, including its compliance and regulatory risks (for a discussion of heightened regulatory expectations on “conduct risk” at, and the overall “culture” of, financial institutions such as Citi, see “Legal Risks” below). All of these factors have resulted in increased compliance risks and costs for Citi.Examples of regulatory changes that have resulted in increased compliance risks and costs include: •The Volcker Rule required Citi to develop an extensive global compliance regime, including developing and maintaining detailed trading and permitted activity mandates for businesses, submitting extensive trading information to regulatory agencies, conducting independent testing and audit, training, recordkeeping and similar requirements and governance, including an annual CEO attestation, beginning on March 31, 2016, with respect to the global processes Citi has in place to achieve compliance with the rules. •Numerous aspects of the U.S. derivatives reform regime require extensive compliance systems and processes to be maintained by Citi on a global basis, including electronic recordkeeping, real-time public transaction reporting and external business conduct requirements (e.g., required swap counterparty disclosures). •A proliferation of data protection and “onshoring” requirements adopted by various non-U.S. jurisdictions, such as in Russia, South Korea, Vietnam and Indonesia, require Citi to take measures to ensure client data is stored or processed within national borders. These requirements could conflict with anti-money laundering and other requirements in other jurisdictions. Extensive compliance requirements can result in increased reputational and legal risks, as failure to comply with regulations and requirements, or failure to comply as expected, can result in enforcement and/or regulatory proceedings (for additional discussion, see “Legal Risks” below). In addition, increased and ongoing compliance requirements and uncertainties have resulted in higher costs for Citi. For example, Citi employed approximately 30,000 regulatory and compliance staff as of year-end 2015, out of a  total employee population of 231,000, compared to approximately 14,000 as of year-end 2008 with a total employee population of 323,000. These higher regulatory and compliance costs also offset Citi’s ongoing cost reduction initiatives. For example, data protection and “onshoring” requirements often require redundant investments in local data storage and security and thus impede or potentially reverse Citi’s centralization or standardization efforts, which provide expense efficiencies. Higher compliance costs may also require management to reallocate resources, including potentially away from ongoing business investment initiatives. Citi Is Subject to Extensive Legal and Regulatory Proceedings, Investigations and Inquiries That Could Result in Significant Penalties and Other Negative Impacts on Citi, Its Businesses and Results of Operations. At any given time, Citi is defending a significant number of legal and regulatory proceedings and is subject to numerous governmental and regulatory examinations, investigations and other inquiries. The frequency with which such proceedings, investigations and inquiries are initiated have increased substantially over the last few years, and the global judicial, regulatory and political environment generally remains hostile to large financial institutions. For example, under recent guidance by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), a corporation (such as Citi) is required to identify all individuals involved in or responsible for perceived misconduct at issue and provide all related facts and circumstances in order to qualify for any cooperation credit in civil and criminal investigations of corporate wrongdoing. The complexity of the federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes in the U.S., coupled with the global scope of Citi’s operations, also means that a single event or issue may give rise to a large number of overlapping investigations and regulatory proceedings, either by multiple federal and state agencies in the U.S. or by multiple regulators and other governmental entities in different jurisdictions. Moreover, U.S. and non-U.S. regulators have been increasingly focused on “conduct risk,” a term that is used to describe the risks associated with behavior by employees and agents, including third-party vendors utilized by Citi, that could harm consumers, investors or the markets, such as failures to safeguard consumers’ and investors’ personal information, failures to identify and manage conflicts of interest and improperly creating, selling and marketing products and services. In addition to increasing Citi’s compliance risks, this focus on conduct risk could lead to more regulatory or other enforcement proceedings and litigation, including for practices which historically were acceptable but are now receiving greater scrutiny. Further, while Citi takes numerous steps to prevent and detect conduct by employees and agents that could potentially harm customers, investors or the markets, such behavior may not always be deterred or prevented. Banking regulators have also focused on the overall culture of financial services firms, including Citi. In addition to regulatory restrictions or structural changes that could result from perceived deficiencies in Citi’s culture, such focus could also lead to additional regulatory proceedings. 62Further, the severity of the remedies sought in legal and regulatory proceedings to which Citi is subject has increased substantially in recent years. U.S. and certain international governmental entities have increasingly brought criminal actions against, or have sought criminal convictions from, financial institutions, and criminal prosecutors in the U.S. have increasingly sought and obtained criminal guilty pleas or deferred prosecution agreements against corporate entities and other criminal sanctions from those institutions. As previously disclosed, in May 2015 an affiliate of Citi entered into a settlement with the DOJ whereby the affiliate pleaded guilty to an antitrust violation and paid a substantial fine to resolve the DOJ’s investigations into Citi’s foreign exchange business practices. These types of actions by U.S. and international governmental entities may, in the future, have significant collateral consequences for a financial institution, including loss of customers and business, and the inability to offer certain products or services and/or operate certain businesses. Citi may be required to accept or be subject to similar types of criminal remedies, consent orders, substantial fines and penalties or other requirements in the future, including for matters or practices not yet known to Citi, any of which could materially and negatively affect Citi’s businesses, business practices, financial condition or results of operations, require material changes in Citi’s operations or cause Citi reputational harm.  Further, many large claims asserted against Citi are highly complex, slow to develop and may involve novel or untested legal theories. The outcome of such proceedings is difficult to predict or estimate until late in the proceedings. Although Citi establishes accruals for its legal and regulatory matters according to accounting requirements, Citi’s estimates of, and changes to, these accruals, involve significant judgment and may be subject to significant uncertainty and the amount of loss ultimately incurred in relation to those matters may be substantially higher than the amounts accrued. In addition, certain settlements are subject to court approval and may not be approved.For additional information relating to Citi’s legal and regulatory proceedings and matters, including Citi’s policies on establishing legal accruals, see Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.63Managing Global Risk Table of ContentsMANAGING GLOBAL RISK