RISK FACTORSThe following discussion sets forth what management currently believes could be the most significant risks and uncertainties that could impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Other risks and uncertainties, including those not currently known to Citi or its management, could also negatively impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Thus, the following should not be considered a complete discussion of all of the risks and uncertainties Citi may face.STRATEGIC RISKSCiti’s Inability to Address the Shortcomings Identified by the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC as a Result of the Agencies’ Review of Citi’s 2015 Resolution Plan Submission and the 2017 Resolution Plan Guidance Could Subject Citi to More Stringent Capital, Leverage or Liquidity Requirements, or Restrictions on Its Growth, Activities or Operations, and Could Eventually Require Citi to Divest Assets or Operations.Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act requires Citi annually to prepare and submit a plan to the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC for the orderly resolution of Citigroup (the bank holding company) and its significant legal entities, under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of future material financial distress or failure (Resolution Plan). Citi’s next Resolution Plan submission is due by July 1, 2017.In April 2016, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC notified Citi of certain “shortcomings” (as opposed to “deficiencies”) they had jointly identified in Citi’s 2015 Resolution Plan which Citi is required to address in its 2017 Resolution Plan submission. The shortcomings related to (i) governance mechanisms, including the lack of detail regarding Citi’s entry into resolution, specific actions to be taken at each stage surrounding Citi’s entry into resolution and a more robust analysis of potential challenges to Citi’s provision of capital and liquidity support to its subsidiaries prior to entry into resolution as well as mitigants to those challenges; (ii) certain of Citi’s assumptions regarding its ability to successfully wind down its derivatives portfolios under its Resolution Plan; and (iii) Citi’s approach to estimating the minimum operating liquidity for its key operating subsidiaries and the minimum amount of liquidity needed for daily operations of such subsidiaries during resolution. In addition, also in April 2016, the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC issued guidance for 2017 Resolution Plan submissions (2017 Guidance). The 2017 Guidance sets forth regulatory expectations for 2017 Resolution Plans across numerous areas, including (i) capital; (ii) liquidity; (iii) governance mechanisms; (iv) operational matters such as management information systems and payment and clearing activities; (v) legal entity rationalization and separability; and (vi) derivatives and trading activities. Citi must also address the 2017 Guidance in its 2017 Resolution Plan submission. For additional information on certain actions Citi currently expects to take in connection with its 2017 Resolution Plan submission, see “Liquidity Risk—Resolution Plan” below. Under Title I, if the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC jointly determine that Citi’s Resolution Plan is not “credible” (which, although not defined, is generally believed to mean the regulators do not believe the plan is feasible or would otherwise allow the regulators to resolve Citi in a way that protects systemically important functions without severe systemic disruption), or would not facilitate an orderly resolution of Citi under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and Citi fails to resubmit a resolution plan that remedies any identified deficiencies, Citi could be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, or restrictions on its growth, activities or operations. If within two years from the imposition of any requirements or restrictions Citi has still not remediated any identified deficiencies, then Citi could eventually be required to divest certain assets or operations. Any such restrictions or actions would negatively impact Citi’s reputation, market and investor perception, operations and strategy.Citi’s Ability to Return Capital to Shareholders Substantially Depends on the CCAR Process and the Results of Regulatory Stress Tests. In addition to Board of Director approval, any decision by Citi to return capital to shareholders, whether through its common stock dividend or through a share repurchase program, substantially depends on regulatory approval, including through the CCAR process required by the Federal Reserve Board and the supervisory stress tests required under the Dodd-Frank Act. Citi’s ability to accurately predict, interpret or explain to stakeholders the outcome of the CCAR process, and thus address any such market or investor perceptions, is difficult as the Federal Reserve Board’s assessment of Citi’s capital adequacy is conducted using the Board’s proprietary stress test models, as well as a number of qualitative factors, including a detailed assessment of Citi’s “capital adequacy process,” as defined by the Board. The Federal Reserve Board has stated that it expects leading capital adequacy practices will continue to evolve and will likely be determined by the Board each year as a result of its cross-firm review of capital plan submissions. Similarly, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that, as part of its stated goal to continually evolve its annual stress testing requirements, several parameters of the annual stress testing process may be altered from time to time, including the severity of the stress test scenario, the Federal Reserve Board modeling of Citi’s balance sheet and the addition of components deemed important by the Federal Reserve Board (e.g., additional macroprudential considerations such as funding and liquidity shocks). Moreover, during the latter part of 2016, senior officials at the Federal Reserve Board indicated that the Board was considering integration of the annual stress testing requirements with ongoing regulatory capital requirements. While there has been no formal proposal from the Federal Reserve Board to date, changes to the stress testing regime being discussed, among others, include introduction of a firm-specific “stress capital buffer” (SCB) which would be equal to the maximum decline in a firm’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio under a severely adverse scenario over a nine-54quarter CCAR measurement period, subject to a minimum requirement of 2.5%. Accordingly, a firm’s SCB would change annually based on its stress test results in the prior year. Officials discussed the idea that the SCB would replace the capital conservation buffer in both the firm’s ongoing regulatory capital requirements and as part of the floor for capital distributions in the CCAR process. Federal Reserve Board senior officials also noted that introduction of the SCB would have the effect of incorporating a firm’s then-effective GSIB surcharge into its post-stress test minimum capital requirements, which the Board has previously indicated it is considering. Although various uncertainties exist regarding the extent of, and the ultimate impact to Citi from, these changes to the Federal Reserve Board’s stress testing and CCAR regimes, these changes would likely further increase the level of capital Citi must hold as part of the stress tests, thus potentially impacting the extent to which Citi is able to return capital to shareholders. Citi, its Management and Businesses Must Continually Review, Analyze and Successfully Adapt to Ongoing Regulatory Uncertainties and Changes in the U.S. and Globally.Despite the adoption of final regulations in numerous areas impacting Citi and its businesses over the past several years, Citi, its management and businesses continually face ongoing regulatory uncertainties and changes, both in the U.S. and globally. While the areas of ongoing regulatory uncertainties and changes facing Citi are too numerous to list completely, various examples include, but are not limited to: (i) uncertainties and potential changes arising from a new U.S. Presidential administration and Congress, including the potential modification or repeal of regulatory requirements enacted and implemented by Citi in recent years; (ii) potential changes to various aspects of the regulatory capital framework applicable to Citi (see the CCAR risk factor and “Capital Resources—Regulatory Capital Standards Developments” above); and (iii) the terms of and other uncertainties resulting from the U.K.’s vote to withdraw from the European Union (EU) (see the U.K. referendum risk factor below). Ongoing regulatory uncertainties and changes make Citi’s and its management’s long-term business, balance sheet and budget planning difficult or subject to change. For example, the new U.S. Presidential administration has discussed various changes to certain regulatory requirements, which would require ongoing assessment by management as to the impact to Citi, its businesses and business planning. Business planning is required to be based on possible or proposed rules or outcomes, which can change dramatically upon finalization, or upon implementation or interpretive guidance from numerous regulatory bodies worldwide, and such guidance can change. Moreover, U.S. and international regulatory initiatives have not always been undertaken or implemented on a coordinated basis, and areas of divergence have developed and continue to develop with respect to the scope, interpretation, timing, structure or approach, leading to inconsistent or even conflicting regulations, including within a single jurisdiction.  For example, during the latter part of 2016, the European Commission proposed to introduce a new requirement for major banking groups headquartered outside the EU (which would include Citi) to establish an intermediate EU holding company where the foreign bank has two or more institutions (broadly meaning banks, broker-dealers and similar financial firms) established in the EU. While the proposal mirrors an existing U.S. requirement for non-U.S. banking organizations to form U.S. intermediate holding companies, if adopted, it could lead to additional complexity with respect to Citi’s resolution planning, capital and liquidity allocation and efficiency in various jurisdictions. Regulatory changes have also significantly increased Citi’s compliance risks and costs (see “Operational Risks” below).Uncertainties Arising as a Result of the Vote in the U.K. to Withdraw from the EU Could Negatively Impact Citi’s Businesses, Results of Operations or Financial Condition.As a result of a referendum held in June 2016, the U.K. elected to withdraw from the EU. The result of the referendum has raised numerous uncertainties, including as to when the U.K. may begin the official process of withdrawal (despite indications this may occur by the end of March 2017) and the commencement of negotiations with the EU regarding the withdrawal as well as the terms of the withdrawal. Additional areas of uncertainty that could impact Citi include, among others: (i) whether Citi will need to make changes to its legal entity and booking model strategy and/or structure in both the U.K. and the EU based on the outcome of negotiations relating to the regulation of financial services; (ii) the potential impact of the withdrawal to the U.K. economy as well as more broadly throughout Europe; (iii) the potential impact to Citi’s exposures to counterparties as a result of any macroeconomic slowdown; (iv) the impact of any withdrawal or the terms of the withdrawal on U.S. monetary policy, such as changes to interest rates; and (v) the potential impact to foreign exchange rates, particularly the Euro and the pound sterling, and the resulting impacts to Citi’s results of operations or financial condition. These or other uncertainties arising from any U.K. decision to withdraw from the EU could negatively impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations or financial condition. The Value of Citi’s DTAs Could Be Significantly Reduced if Corporate Tax Rates in the U.S. or Certain State, Local or Foreign Jurisdictions Decline or as a Result of Other Changes in the U.S. Corporate Tax System. Over the past several years, there have been discussions regarding decreasing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate, and such discussions have taken on a new focus and prominence given the new U.S. presidential administration and Congress. Similar discussions have taken place in certain local, state and foreign jurisdictions. While Citi may benefit on a prospective net income basis from any decrease in corporate tax rates, proposals being discussed currently—such as lowering the corporate tax rate or moving from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system—could result in a material decrease in the value of Citi’s DTAs, which would also result in a material reduction to 55Citi’s net income during the period in which the change is enacted. Citi’s regulatory capital could also be reduced if the decrease in the value of Citi’s DTAs exceeds certain levels (for additional information on the potential impact to Citi’s regulatory capital arising from U.S. corporate tax reform, see the notes to the tables regarding the components of Citi’s regulatory capital under both current (transitional) and Basel III full implementation in “Capital Resources” above). Given the number of uncertainties relating to the ultimate form any corporate tax reform may take, it is not possible to quantify the potential negative impact to Citi’s income or regulatory capital that could result from corporate tax reform.Citi’s Ability to Utilize Its DTAs, and Thus Reduce the Negative Impact of the DTAs on Citi’s Regulatory Capital, Will Be Driven by Its Ability to Generate U.S. Taxable Income.At December 31, 2016, Citi’s net DTAs were approximately $46.7 billion, of which approximately $29.3 billion was excluded from Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, on a fully implemented basis, under the U.S. Basel III rules (for additional information, see “Capital Resources—Components of Citigroup Capital Under Basel III (Advanced Approaches with Full Implementation)” above). In addition, of the net DTAs as of year-end 2016, approximately $14.2 billion related to foreign tax credit carry-forwards (FTCs). The carry-forward utilization period for FTCs is 10 years and represents the most time-sensitive component of Citi’s DTAs. Of the FTCs at year-end 2016, approximately $2.7 billion expire in 2018 and the remaining $11.5 billion expire over the period of 2019-2025. Citi must utilize any FTCs generated in the then-current year tax return prior to utilizing any carry-forward FTCs.The accounting treatment for realization of DTAs, including FTCs, is complex and requires significant judgment and estimates regarding future taxable earnings in the jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise and available tax planning strategies. Citi’s ability to utilize its DTAs, including the FTC components, and thus use the capital supporting the DTAs for more productive purposes, will be dependent upon Citi’s ability to generate U.S. taxable income in the relevant tax carry-forward periods. Failure to realize any portion of the DTAs would also have a corresponding negative impact on Citi’s net income.In addition, with regard to FTCs, utilization will be influenced by actions to optimize U.S. taxable earnings for the purpose of consuming the FTC carry-forward component of the DTAs prior to expiration. These FTC actions, however, may serve to increase the DTAs for other less time sensitive components. Moreover, tax return limitations on FTCs and general business credits that cause Citi to incur current tax expense, notwithstanding its tax carry-forward position, could impact the rate of overall DTA utilization. DTA utilization will also continue to be driven by movements in Citi’s AOCI, which can be impacted by changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.For additional information on Citi’s DTAs, including the FTCs, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant  Estimates—Income Taxes” below and Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Citi’s Interpretation or Application of the Extensive Tax Laws to Which It Is Subject Could Differ from Those of the Relevant Governmental Authorities, Which Could Result in the Payment of Additional Taxes, Penalties or Interest.Citi is subject to the various tax laws of the U.S. and its states and municipalities, as well as the numerous foreign jurisdictions in which it operates. These tax laws are inherently complex and Citi must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws to its entities, operations and businesses. Citi’s interpretations and application of the tax laws, including with respect to withholding tax obligations and stamp and other transactional taxes, could differ from that of the relevant governmental taxing authority, which could result in the payment of additional taxes, penalties or interest, which could be material.Citi’s Ongoing Investments in Its Businesses May Not Be as Successful as it Projects or Expects. Citi continues to make targeted investments in its businesses, including in its global cards and wealth management businesses in Global Consumer Banking as well as in certain businesses in Institutional Clients Group. Citi also continues to invest in its technology systems to enhance its digital capabilities. In addition, during the latter part of 2016, Citi announced a more than $1 billion investment in Citibanamex expected to be completed by 2020. Citi’s investment strategy will likely continue to evolve and change as its business strategy and priorities change.There is no guarantee that investments Citi has made, or may make, in its businesses or operations will be as productive or effective as Citi expects or at all. Further, Citi’s ability to achieve its expected returns on its investments in part depends on factors which it cannot control, such as macroeconomic conditions, customer and client reactions, and ongoing regulatory changes, among others. Citi Has Co-Branding and Private Label Credit Card Relationships with Various Retailers and Merchants and the Failure to Maintain These Relationships Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Results of Operations or Financial Condition.Through its Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services credit card businesses, Citi has co-branding and private label relationships with various retailers and merchants globally in the ordinary course of business whereby Citi issues credit cards to customers of the retailers or merchants. Citi’s co-branding and private label agreements provide for shared economics between the parties and generally have a fixed term. The five largest relationships constituted an aggregate of approximately 11% of Citi’s revenues for 2016.Competition among card issuers, including Citi, for these relationships is significant and it has become increasingly difficult in recent years to maintain such relationships on the same terms or at all. These relationships could also be negatively impacted due to, among other things, operational difficulties of the retailer or merchant, termination due to a 56breach by Citi, the retailer or merchant of its responsibilities, or external factors, including bankruptcies, liquidations, restructurings, consolidations and other similar events. While various mitigating factors could be available to Citi if any of these events were to occur—such as by replacing the retailer or merchant or offering other card products—such events could negatively impact Citi’s results of operations or financial condition, including as a result of loss of revenues, impairment of purchased credit card relationships and contract related intangibles or other losses (for information on Citi’s credit card related intangibles generally, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).Macroeconomic and Geopolitical Challenges Globally Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Businesses and Results of Operations.Citi has experienced, and could experience in the future, negative impacts to its businesses and results of operations as a result of macroeconomic and geopolitical challenges, uncertainties and volatility.For example, energy and other commodity prices significantly deteriorated during the second half of 2015 and into 2016, which impacted various financial markets, countries and industries. The economic and fiscal situations of several European countries remain fragile, and concerns and uncertainties remain in Europe over the potential exit of additional countries from the EU. In addition, governmental fiscal and monetary actions, or expected actions, have impacted the volatilities of global financial markets, foreign exchange rates and capital flows among countries. Moreover, the new U.S. Presidential administration has indicated it may pursue protectionist trade and other policies, which could result in additional macroeconomic and/or geopolitical challenges, uncertainties and volatilities. These and other global macroeconomic and geopolitical challenges, uncertainties and volatilities have negatively impacted, and could continue to negatively impact, Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition, including its credit costs, revenues in its Markets and securities services and other businesses, and AOCI (which would in turn negatively impact Citi’s book and tangible book value). Citi’s Presence in the Emerging Markets Subjects It to Various Risks as well as Increased Compliance and Regulatory Risks and Costs.During 2016, emerging markets revenues accounted for approximately 36% of Citi’s total revenues (Citi generally defines emerging markets as countries in Latin America, Asia (other than Japan, Australia and New Zealand), Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa). Citi’s presence in the emerging markets subjects it to a number of risks, including sovereign volatility, political events, foreign exchange controls, limitations on foreign investment, sociopolitical instability (including from hyper-inflation), fraud, nationalization or loss of licenses, business restrictions, sanctions or asset freezes, potential criminal charges, closure of branches or subsidiaries and confiscation of assets. For example, Citi operates in several countries that  have, or have had in the recent past, strict foreign exchange controls, such as Argentina and Venezuela, that limit its ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars and/or transfer funds outside the country. In prior years, Citi has also discovered fraud in certain emerging markets in which it operates. Political turmoil and other instability have occurred in certain countries, such as in Russia, Ukraine and the Middle East, which have required management time and attention in prior years (e.g., monitoring the impact of sanctions on the Russian economy as well as Citi’s businesses and results of operations).Citi’s emerging markets presence also increases its compliance and regulatory risks and costs. For example, Citi’s operations in emerging markets, including facilitating cross-border transactions on behalf of its clients, subject it to higher compliance risks under U.S. regulations primarily focused on various aspects of global corporate activities, such as anti-money-laundering regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These risks can be more acute in less developed markets and thus require substantial investment in compliance infrastructure or could result in a reduction in certain of Citi’s business activities. Any failure by Citi to comply with applicable U.S. regulations, as well as the regulations in the countries and markets in which it operates as a result of its global footprint, could result in fines, penalties, injunctions or other similar restrictions, any of which could negatively impact Citi’s results of operations and its reputation.The Federal Reserve Board’s Recently Issued Final Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity Requirements Raise Uncertainties Regarding the Consequences of Noncompliance and the Potential Impact on Citi’s Estimates of its Eligible Debt. Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act grants the FDIC the authority, under certain circumstances, to resolve systemically important financial institutions, including Citi. The FDIC has released a notice describing its preferred “single point of entry strategy” for such resolution, pursuant to which, generally, a bank holding company, such as Citigroup, would be placed into resolution, Citi’s operating subsidiaries would be recapitalized and remain outside of any resolution proceedings, and the shareholders and unsecured creditors of Citigroup—including unsecured long-term debt holders—would bear any losses resulting from Citi’s resolution.Consistent with this strategy, on December 15, 2016, the Federal Reserve Board issued final rules requiring GSIBs, including Citi, to (i) issue and maintain minimum levels of external “total loss-absorbing capacity” (TLAC) and long-term debt (LTD), and (ii) adhere to various “clean holding company” requirements at the bank holding company level. For a summary of the final TLAC requirements, see “Liquidity Risk—Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC)” below.While the final TLAC rules addressed several areas of uncertainty arising from the proposed rules, uncertainties regarding certain key aspects of the recently-issued rules remain and will likely require additional clarification or interpretive guidance. First, the consequences of a breach of the external LTD requirement are not clear. Given that there is no “cure” period in the final rules, Citi could be required to issue additional external LTD above the minimum 57requirements to ensure compliance. Similarly, the consequences of a breach of the clean holding company requirements are uncertain, and there is no cure period. Accordingly, Citi will need to determine if it should reduce its third party, non-contingent liabilities at the bank holding company level to well below the 5% cap required under the clean holding company requirements in order to avoid inadvertently breaching the 5% cap, particularly since certain of the liabilities at issue are outside of Citi’s control. In addition, the final rules introduced a new “anti-evasion” provision that authorizes the Federal Reserve Board to exclude from a bank holding company’s outstanding external LTD any debt having certain features that would, in the Board’s view, “significantly impair” the debt’s ability to absorb losses. In effect, this provision could allow the Federal Reserve Board, after notice and opportunity for Citi to respond, to exclude certain LTD, such as certain customer-related debt, from Citi’s reported external LTD. This could result in noncompliance with the required external LTD minimums, leading to the uncertainty described above, and negatively impact Citi’s reputation in the market.CREDIT RISKSConcentrations of Risk Can Increase the Potential for Citi to Incur Significant Losses.Concentrations of risk, particularly credit and market risk, can increase Citi’s risk of significant losses. As of December 31, 2016, Citi’s most significant concentration of credit risk was with the U.S. government and its agencies, which primarily results from trading assets and investments issued by the U.S. government and its agencies (for additional information, see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Citi also routinely executes a high volume of securities, trading, derivative and foreign exchange transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including banks, insurance companies, investment banks, governments, central banks and other financial institutions. To the extent regulatory or market developments lead to increased centralization of trading activity through particular clearing houses, central agents, exchanges or other financial market utilities, Citi could also experience an increase in concentration of risk to these industries. These concentrations of risk as well as the risk of failure of a large counterparty, central counterparty clearing house or financial market utility could limit the effectiveness of Citi’s hedging strategies and cause Citi to incur significant losses.LIQUIDITY RISKSThe Maintenance of Adequate Liquidity and Funding Depends on Numerous Factors, Including Those Outside of Citi’s Control, Such as Market Disruptions and Increases in Citi’s Credit Spreads.As a global financial institution, adequate liquidity and sources of funding are essential to Citi’s businesses. Citi’s liquidity and sources of funding can be significantly and negatively impacted by factors it cannot control, such as general disruptions in the financial markets, governmental  fiscal and monetary policies, regulatory changes or negative investor perceptions of Citi’s creditworthiness.In addition, Citi’s costs to obtain and access deposits, secured funding and long-term unsecured funding are directly related to its credit spreads. Changes in credit spreads constantly occur and are market driven, including both external market factors and factors specific to Citi, and can be highly volatile. Citi’s credit spreads may also be influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to Citi’s long-term debt, which are also impacted by these external and Citi-specific factors. Moreover, Citi’s ability to obtain funding may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to access the markets at the same time, or if market appetite is reduced, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. A sudden drop in market liquidity could also cause a temporary or more lengthy dislocation of underwriting and capital markets activity. In addition, clearing organizations, regulators, clients and financial institutions with which Citi interacts may exercise the right to require additional collateral based on these market perceptions or market conditions, which could further impair Citi’s access to and cost of funding.As a holding company, Citi relies on interest, dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividends as well as to satisfy its debt and other obligations. Several of Citi’s U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are or may be subject to capital adequacy or other regulatory or contractual restrictions on their ability to provide such payments, including any local regulatory stress test requirements. Limitations on the payments that Citi receives from its subsidiaries could also impact its liquidity. The Credit Rating Agencies Continuously Review the Credit Ratings of Citi and Certain of Its Subsidiaries, and Ratings Downgrades Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Funding and Liquidity Due to Reduced Funding Capacity and Increased Funding Costs, Including Derivatives Triggers That Could Require Cash Obligations or Collateral Requirements.The credit rating agencies, such as Fitch, Moody’s and S&P, continuously evaluate Citi and certain of its subsidiaries, and their ratings of Citi and its more significant subsidiaries’ long-term/senior debt and short-term/commercial paper, as applicable, are based on a number of factors, including standalone financial strength, as well as factors not entirely within the control of Citi and its subsidiaries, such as the agencies’ proprietary rating agency methodologies and assumptions and conditions affecting the financial services industry and markets generally.Citi and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their current respective ratings. Ratings downgrades could negatively impact Citi’s ability to access the capital markets and other sources of funds as well as the costs of those funds, and its ability to maintain certain deposits. A ratings downgrade could also have a negative impact on Citi’s funding and liquidity due to reduced funding capacity, as well as the impact of derivative triggers, which could require Citi to meet cash obligations and collateral requirements. In addition, a ratings downgrade could also have a negative impact on 58other funding sources, such as secured financing and other margined transactions for which there may be no explicit triggers, as well as on contractual provisions and other credit requirements of Citi’s counterparties and clients, which may contain minimum ratings thresholds in order for Citi to hold third-party funds.Moreover, credit ratings downgrades can have impacts, which may not be currently known to Citi or which are not possible to quantify. For example, some entities may have ratings limitations as to their permissible counterparties, of which Citi may or may not be aware. In addition, certain of Citi’s corporate customers and trading counterparties, among other clients, could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi and limit the trading of certain contracts or market instruments with Citi in response to ratings downgrades. Changes in customer and counterparty behavior could impact not only Citi’s funding and liquidity but also the results of operations of certain Citi businesses. For additional information on the potential impact of a reduction in Citi’s or Citibank’s credit ratings, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below.OPERATIONAL RISKSA Disruption of Citi’s Operational Systems Could Negatively Impact Citi’s Reputation, Customers, Clients, Businesses or Results of Operations and Financial Condition.A significant portion of Citi’s operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information as well as the monitoring of a large number of complex transactions on a minute-by-minute basis. For example, through its Global Consumer Banking and credit card and securities services businesses in Institutional Clients Group, Citi obtains and stores an extensive amount of personal and client-specific information for its retail, corporate and governmental customers and clients and must accurately record and reflect their extensive account transactions. With the evolving proliferation of new technologies and the increasing use of the Internet, mobile devices and cloud technologies to conduct financial transactions, large, global financial institutions such as Citi have been, and will continue to be, subject to an increasing risk of operational disruption or cyber or information security incidents from these activities (for additional information on cybersecurity risk, see the discussion below). These incidents are unpredictable and can arise from numerous sources, not all of which are in Citi’s control, including among others human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees, accidental technological failure, electrical or telecommunication outages, failures of computer servers or other similar damage to Citi’s property or assets. These issues can also arise as a result of failures by third parties with which Citi does business such as failures by Internet, mobile technology, cloud service providers or other vendors to adequately safeguard their systems and prevent system disruptions or cyber attacks. Such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in the operations of Citi (such as the temporary loss of availability of Citi’s online banking system or mobile banking platform), as well as the operations of its clients, customers or  other third parties. Given Citi’s global footprint and the high volume of transactions processed by Citi, certain errors or actions may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified, which would further increase these costs and consequences. Any such events could also result in financial losses as well as misappropriation, corruption or loss of confidential and other information or assets, which could negatively impact Citi’s reputation, customers, clients, businesses or results of operations and financial condition, perhaps significantly. Citi’s Computer Systems and Networks Have Been, and Will Continue to Be, Subject to an Increasing Risk of Continually Evolving Cybersecurity Risks Which Could Result in the Theft, Loss, Misuse or Disclosure of Confidential Client or Customer Information, Damage to Citi’s Reputation, Additional Costs to Citi, Regulatory Penalties, Legal Exposure and Financial Losses. Citi’s computer systems, software and networks are subject to ongoing cyber incidents such as unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks and other similar events. These threats can arise from external parties, including criminal organizations, extremist parties and certain foreign state actors that engage in cyber activities. Third parties with which Citi does business, as well as retailers and other third parties with which Citi’s customers do business, may also be sources of cybersecurity risks, particularly where activities of customers are beyond Citi’s security and control systems. For example, Citi outsources certain functions, such as processing customer credit card transactions, uploading content on customer-facing websites, and developing software for new products and services. These relationships allow for the storage and processing of customer information by third-party hosting of or access to Citi websites, which could result in compromise or the potential to introduce vulnerable or malicious code, resulting in security breaches impacting Citi customers. Furthermore, because financial institutions are becoming increasingly interconnected with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, including as a result of the derivatives reforms over the last few years, Citi has increased exposure to cyber attacks through third parties.As further evidence of the increasing and potentially significant impact of cyber incidents, in recent years, several U.S. retailers and financial institutions and other multinational companies reported cyber incidents that compromised customer data, resulted in theft of funds or theft or destruction of corporate information or other assets. In addition, in prior years, the U.S. government as well as several multinational companies reported cyber incidents affecting their computer systems that resulted in the data of millions of customers and employees being compromised. While Citi has not been materially impacted by these reported or other cyber incidents, Citi has been subject to other intentional cyber incidents from external sources over the last several years, including (i) denial of service attacks, which attempted to interrupt service to clients and customers; (ii) 59data breaches, which obtained unauthorized access to customer account data; and (iii) malicious software attacks on client systems, which attempted to allow unauthorized entrance to Citi’s systems under the guise of a client and the extraction of client data. While Citi’s monitoring and protection services were able to detect and respond to the incidents targeting its systems before they became significant, they still resulted in limited losses in some instances as well as increases in expenditures to monitor against the threat of similar future cyber incidents. There can be no assurance that such cyber incidents will not occur again, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale.Further, although Citi devotes significant resources to implement, maintain, monitor and regularly upgrade its systems and networks with measures such as intrusion detection and prevention and firewalls to safeguard critical business applications, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can provide absolute security. In addition, because the methods used to cause cyber attacks change frequently or, in some cases, are not recognized until launched, Citi may be unable to implement effective preventive measures or proactively address these methods until they are discovered. In addition, while Citi engages in certain actions to reduce the exposure resulting from outsourcing, such as performing onsite security control assessments and limiting third-party access to the least privileged level necessary to perform job functions, these actions cannot prevent all external cyber attacks, information breaches or similar losses. Cyber incidents can result in the disclosure of personal, confidential or proprietary customer or client information, damage to Citi’s reputation with its clients and the market, customer dissatisfaction, additional costs (including credit costs) to Citi (such as repairing systems, replacing customer payment cards or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory penalties, exposure to litigation and other financial losses, including loss of funds, to both Citi and its clients and customers (for additional information on the potential impact from cyber incidents, see the operational systems risk factor above).While Citi maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions including significant self-insured deductibles, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses.Incorrect Assumptions or Estimates in Citi’s Financial Statements Could Cause Significant Unexpected Losses in the Future, and Changes to Financial Accounting and Reporting Standards or Interpretations Could Have a Material Impact on How Citi Records and Reports Its Financial Condition and Results of Operations.Citi is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing its financial statements under U.S. GAAP, including reserves related to litigation and regulatory exposures, valuation of DTAs, the estimate of the allowance for credit losses and the fair values of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If Citi’s assumptions or estimates underlying its financial statements are incorrect or differ from  actual future events, Citi could experience unexpected losses, some of which could be significant.The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has issued several financial accounting and reporting standards that will govern key aspects of Citi’s financial statements or interpretations thereof when those standards become effective, including those areas where Citi is required to make assumptions or estimates. For example, the FASB’s new accounting standard on credit losses, which will become effective for Citi on January 1, 2020, will require earlier recognition of credit losses on financial assets. The new accounting model requires that lifetime “expected credit losses” on financial assets not recorded at fair value through net income, such as loans and held-to-maturity securities, be recorded at inception of the financial asset, replacing the multiple existing impairment models under U.S. GAAP which generally require that a loss be “incurred” before it is recognized (for additional information on this and other accounting standards, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Changes to financial accounting or reporting standards or interpretations, whether promulgated or required by the FASB or other regulators, could present operational challenges and could require Citi to change certain of the assumptions or estimates it previously used in preparing its financial statements, which could negatively impact how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations generally and/or with respect to particular businesses. For additional information on the key areas for which assumptions and estimates are used in preparing Citi’s financial statements, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below and Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Ongoing Implementation and Interpretation of Regulatory Changes and Requirements in the U.S. and Globally Have Increased Citi’s Compliance Risks and Costs.As referenced above, over the past several years, Citi has been required to implement a significant number of regulatory changes across all of its businesses and functions, and these changes continue. In some cases, Citi’s implementation of a regulatory requirement is occurring simultaneously with changing or conflicting regulatory guidance, legal challenges or legislative action to modify or repeal final rules. Moreover, in many cases, these are entirely new regulatory requirements or regimes, resulting in much uncertainty regarding regulatory expectations as to what is definitely required in order to be in compliance with the requirements. Accompanying this compliance uncertainty is heightened regulatory scrutiny and expectations in the U.S. and globally for the financial services industry with respect to governance and risk management practices, including its compliance and regulatory risks (for a discussion of heightened regulatory expectations on “conduct risk” at, and the overall “culture” of, financial institutions such as Citi, see the legal and regulatory proceedings risk factor below). All of these factors have resulted in increased compliance risks and costs for Citi.Examples of regulatory changes that have resulted in increased compliance risks and costs include (i) the Volcker 60Rule, which requires Citi to maintain an extensive global compliance regime, including significant documentation to support the prohibition against proprietary trading, and (ii) a proliferation of laws relating to the limitation of cross-border data movement, including data localization and protection and privacy laws, which can conflict with or increase compliance complexity with respect to anti-money laundering laws.Extensive compliance requirements can result in increased reputational and legal risks, as failure to comply with regulations and requirements, or failure to comply as expected, can result in enforcement and/or regulatory proceedings (for additional discussion, see the legal and regulatory proceedings risk factor below). In addition, increased and ongoing compliance requirements and uncertainties have resulted in higher costs for Citi. For example, Citi employed approximately 29,000 risk, regulatory and compliance staff as of year-end 2016, out of a total employee population of 219,000, compared to approximately 14,000 as of year-end 2008 with a total employee population of 323,000. These higher regulatory and compliance costs can impede Citi’s ongoing, business-as-usual cost reduction efforts, and can also require management to reallocate resources, including potentially away from ongoing business investment initiatives, as discussed above.Citi Is Subject to Extensive Legal and Regulatory Proceedings, Investigations and Inquiries That Could Result in Significant Penalties and Other Negative Impacts on Citi, Its Businesses and Results of Operations.At any given time, Citi is defending a significant number of legal and regulatory proceedings and is subject to numerous governmental and regulatory examinations, investigations and other inquiries. Over the last several years, the frequency with which such proceedings, investigations and inquiries are initiated have increased substantially, and the global judicial, regulatory and political environment has generally been unfavorable for large financial institutions. The complexity of the federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes in the U.S., coupled with the global scope of Citi’s operations, also means that a single event or issue may give rise to a large number of overlapping investigations and regulatory proceedings, either by multiple federal and state agencies in the U.S. or by multiple regulators and other governmental entities in different jurisdictions.Moreover, U.S. and non-U.S. regulators have been increasingly focused on “conduct risk,” a term that is used to describe the risks associated with behavior by employees and agents, including third-party vendors utilized by Citi, that could harm clients, customers, investors or the markets, such as improperly creating, selling, marketing or managing products and services or improper incentive compensation programs with respect thereto, failures to safeguard a party’s personal information, or failures to identify and manage conflicts of interest. In addition to increasing Citi’s compliance risks, this focus on conduct risk could lead to more regulatory or other enforcement proceedings and civil litigation, including for practices which historically were acceptable but are now receiving greater scrutiny. Further, while Citi takes numerous steps to prevent and detect conduct  by employees and agents that could potentially harm clients, customers, investors or the markets, such behavior may not always be deterred or prevented. Banking regulators have also focused on the overall culture of financial services firms, including Citi. In addition to regulatory restrictions or structural changes that could result from perceived deficiencies in Citi’s culture, such focus could also lead to additional regulatory proceedings.Further, the severity of the remedies sought in legal and regulatory proceedings to which Citi is subject has increased substantially in recent years. U.S. and certain international governmental entities have increasingly brought criminal actions against, or have sought criminal convictions from, financial institutions, and criminal prosecutors in the U.S. have increasingly sought and obtained criminal guilty pleas or deferred prosecution agreements against corporate entities and other criminal sanctions from those institutions. In May 2015 an affiliate of Citi pleaded guilty to an antitrust violation and paid a substantial fine to resolve a DOJ investigation into Citi’s foreign exchange business practices. These types of actions by U.S. and international governmental entities may, in the future, have significant collateral consequences for a financial institution, including loss of customers and business, and the inability to offer certain products or services and/or operate certain businesses. Citi may be required to accept or be subject to similar types of criminal remedies, consent orders, sanctions, substantial fines and penalties or other requirements in the future, including for matters or practices not yet known to Citi, any of which could materially and negatively affect Citi’s businesses, business practices, financial condition or results of operations, require material changes in Citi’s operations or cause Citi reputational harm. Further, many large claims—both private civil and regulatory—asserted against Citi are highly complex, slow to develop and may involve novel or untested legal theories. The outcome of such proceedings is difficult to predict or estimate until late in the proceedings. Although Citi establishes accruals for its legal and regulatory matters according to accounting requirements, Citi’s estimates of, and changes to, these accruals, involve significant judgment and may be subject to significant uncertainty and the amount of loss ultimately incurred in relation to those matters may be substantially higher than the amounts accrued. In addition, certain settlements are subject to court approval and may not be approved.For additional information relating to Citi’s legal and regulatory proceedings and matters, including Citi’s policies on establishing legal accruals, see Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.If Citi’s Risk Models Are Ineffective or Require Modification or Enhancement, Citi Could Incur Significant Losses or Its Regulatory Capital and Capital Ratios Could Be Negatively Impacted.Citi utilizes models extensively as part of its risk management and mitigation strategies, including in analyzing and monitoring the various risks Citi assumes in conducting its activities. For example, Citi uses models as part of its various stress testing initiatives across the firm. Management of these 61risks is made even more challenging within a global financial institution such as Citi, particularly given the complex, diverse and rapidly changing financial markets and conditions in which Citi operates.These models and strategies are inherently limited because they involve techniques, including the use of historical data in many circumstances, and judgments that cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome in the markets in which Citi operates, nor can they anticipate the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Citi could incur significant losses if its risk management models or strategies are ineffective in properly anticipating or managing these risks.Moreover, Citi’s Basel III regulatory capital models, including its credit, market and operational risk models, currently remain subject to ongoing regulatory review and approval, which may result in refinements, modifications or enhancements (required or otherwise) to these models. Modifications or requirements resulting from these ongoing reviews, as well as any future changes or guidance provided by the U.S. banking agencies regarding the regulatory capital framework applicable to Citi, have resulted in, and could continue to result in, significant changes to Citi’s risk-weighted assets. These changes can negatively impact Citi’s capital ratios and its ability to achieve its regulatory capital requirements as it projects or as required.Citi’s Performance and the Performance of Its Individual Businesses Could Be Negatively Impacted if Citi Is Not Able to Hire and Retain Highly Qualified Employees for Any Reason. Citi’s performance and the performance of its individual businesses is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled employees. Specifically, Citi’s continued ability to compete in its businesses, to manage its businesses effectively and to continue to execute its overall global strategy depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its existing employees. If Citi is unable to continue to attract and retain the most highly qualified employees for any reason, Citi’s performance, including its competitive position, the successful execution of its overall strategy and its results of operations could be negatively impacted.Citi’s ability to attract and retain employees depends on numerous factors, some of which are outside of its control. For example, given the heightened regulatory and political environment in which Citi operates relative to competitors for talent both within and outside of the financial services area, it may be more difficult for Citi to hire or retain highly qualified employees in the future. Other factors that impact Citi’s ability to attract and retain employees include its culture, compensation, the management and leadership of the company as well as its individual businesses, Citi’s presence in the particular market or region at issue and the professional opportunities it offers. Generally, the banking industry is subject to more stringent regulation of executive and employee compensation than other industries, including deferral and clawback requirements for incentive compensation and other limitations. Citi often competes in the  market for talent with entities that are not subject to such significant regulatory restrictions on the structure of incentive compensation.62Managing Global Risk Table of ContentsMANAGING GLOBAL RISK