RISK FACTORSThe following discussion sets forth what management currently believes could be the most significant risks and uncertainties that could impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Other risks and uncertainties, including those not currently known to Citi or its management, could also negatively impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Thus, the following should not be considered a complete discussion of all of the risks and uncertainties Citi may face.STRATEGIC RISKSCiti’s Ability to Return Capital to Common Shareholders Consistent with Its Capital Optimization Efforts Substantially Depends on the CCAR Process and the Results of Regulatory Stress Tests.In addition to Board of Director approval, Citi’s ability to return capital to its common shareholders consistent with its capital optimization efforts, whether through its common stock dividend or through a share repurchase program, substantially depends on regulatory approval, including through the CCAR process required by the Federal Reserve Board and the supervisory stress tests required under the Dodd-Frank Act. For additional information on Citi’s return of capital to common shareholders in 2017 as well as the CCAR process and supervisory stress test requirements, see “Capital Resources—Overview” and “Capital Resources—Stress Testing Component of Capital Planning” above.Citi’s ability to accurately predict, interpret or explain to stakeholders the outcome of the CCAR process, and thus address any such market or investor perceptions, is difficult as the Federal Reserve Board’s assessment of Citi’s capital adequacy is conducted using the Board’s proprietary stress test models, as well as a number of qualitative factors, including a detailed assessment of Citi’s “capital adequacy process,” as defined by the Board. The Federal Reserve Board has stated that it expects leading capital adequacy practices will continue to evolve and will likely be determined by the Board each year as a result of its cross-firm review of capital plan submissions. Similarly, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that, as part of its stated goal to continually evolve its annual stress testing requirements, several parameters of the annual stress testing process may be altered from time to time, including the severity of the stress test scenario, the Federal Reserve Board modeling of Citi’s balance sheet and the addition of components deemed important by the Federal Reserve Board (e.g., additional macroprudential considerations such as funding and liquidity shocks). Moreover, in 2016, senior officials at the Federal Reserve Board indicated that the Board was considering integration of the annual stress testing requirements with ongoing regulatory capital requirements. While there has been no formal proposal from the Federal Reserve Board to date, changes to the stress testing regime being discussed, among others, include introduction of a firm-specific “stress capital buffer” (SCB), which would be equal to the maximum decline in a firm’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio under a severely adverse  scenario over a nine-quarter CCAR measurement period, subject to a minimum requirement of 2.5%. Accordingly, a firm’s SCB would change annually based on its stress test results in the prior year. Officials discussed the idea that the SCB would replace the capital conservation buffer in both the firm’s ongoing regulatory capital requirements and as part of the floor for capital distributions in the CCAR process. Federal Reserve Board senior officials also noted that introduction of the SCB would have the effect of incorporating a firm’s then-effective GSIB surcharge into its post-stress test minimum capital requirements, which the Board has previously indicated it is considering.Although various uncertainties exist regarding the extent of, and the ultimate impact to Citi from, these changes to the Federal Reserve Board’s stress testing and CCAR regimes, these changes would likely increase the level of capital Citi is required to hold, thus potentially impacting the extent to which Citi is able to return capital to shareholders.Citi, Its Management and Businesses Must Continually Review, Analyze and Successfully Adapt to Ongoing Regulatory and Other Uncertainties and Changes in the U.S. and Globally.Despite the adoption of final regulations in numerous areas impacting Citi and its businesses over the past several years, Citi, its management and businesses continually face ongoing regulatory uncertainties and changes, both in the U.S. and globally. While the areas of ongoing regulatory uncertainties and changes facing Citi are too numerous to list completely, various examples include, but are not limited to (i) uncertainties and potential fiscal, monetary and regulatory changes arising from the U.S. Presidential administration and Congress; (ii) potential changes to various aspects of the regulatory capital framework applicable to Citi (see the CCAR risk factor and “Capital Resources—Regulatory Capital Standards Developments” above); and (iii) the terms of and other uncertainties resulting from the U.K.’s potential exit from the European Union (EU) (see the macroeconomic challenges and uncertainties risk factor below).Ongoing regulatory uncertainties and changes make Citi’s and its management’s long-term business, balance sheet and budget planning difficult or subject to change. For example, the U.S. Presidential administration has discussed various changes to certain regulatory requirements, which would require ongoing assessment by management as to the impact to Citi, its businesses and business planning. Business planning is required to be based on possible or proposed rules or outcomes, which can change dramatically upon finalization, or upon implementation or interpretive guidance from numerous regulatory bodies worldwide, and such guidance can change.Moreover, U.S. and international regulatory initiatives have not always been undertaken or implemented on a coordinated basis, and areas of divergence have developed and continue to develop with respect to the scope, interpretation, timing, structure or approach, leading to inconsistent or even conflicting regulations, including within a single jurisdiction. For example, in 2016, the European Commission proposed to introduce a new requirement for major banking groups 56headquartered outside the EU (which would include Citi) to establish an intermediate EU holding company where the foreign bank has two or more institutions (broadly meaning banks, broker-dealers and similar financial firms) established in the EU. While the proposal mirrors an existing U.S. requirement for non-U.S. banking organizations to form U.S. intermediate holding companies, if adopted, it could lead to additional complexity with respect to Citi’s resolution planning, capital and liquidity allocation and efficiency in various jurisdictions. Regulatory changes have also significantly increased Citi’s compliance risks and costs (see the implementation and interpretation of regulatory changes risk factor below).Citi’s Ability to Utilize Its DTAs, and Thus Reduce the Negative Impact of the DTAs on Citi’s Regulatory Capital, Will Be Driven by Its Ability to Generate U.S. Taxable Income and by the Provisions of and Guidance Issued in Connection with Tax Reform.At December 31, 2017, after the $22.6 billion remeasurement of DTAs due to the impact of Tax Reform, Citi’s net DTAs were $22.5 billion, net of a valuation allowance of $9.4 billion, of which $12.3 billion was excluded from Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, on a fully implemented basis, under the U.S. Basel III rules (for additional information, see “Capital Resources—Components of Citigroup Capital Under Basel III (Advanced Approaches with Full Implementation)” above). Of the net DTAs at December 31, 2017, $7.6 billion related to foreign tax credit carry-forwards (FTCs), net of a valuation allowance. The carry-forward utilization period for FTCs is 10 years and represents the most time-sensitive component of Citi’s DTAs. The FTC carry-forwards at December 31, 2017 expire over the period of 2018–2027. Citi must utilize any FTCs generated in the then-current year tax return prior to utilizing any carry-forward FTCs.The accounting treatment for realization of DTAs, including FTCs, is complex and requires significant judgment and estimates regarding future taxable earnings in the jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise and available tax planning strategies. Citi’s ability to utilize its DTAs, including the FTC components, will be dependent upon Citi’s ability to generate U.S. taxable income in the relevant tax carry-forward periods. Failure to realize any portion of the DTAs would also have a corresponding negative impact on Citi’s net income.Citi expects transitional guidance from the U.S. Department of the Treasury (U.S. Treasury) in 2018 regarding the required allocation of existing FTC carry-forwards to the appropriate FTC baskets as redefined by Tax Reform. The U.S. Treasury is also expected to provide transitional guidance that addresses the allocation of the overall domestic loss (ODL) to these FTC baskets. An ODL allows a company to recharacterize domestic income as income from sources outside the U.S., which enables a taxpayer to use FTC carry-forwards and FTCs generated in future years, assuming the generation of sufficient U.S. taxed income. If the guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury differs from Citi’s assumptions, the valuation allowance against Citi’s FTC carry-forwards would increase or decrease, depending upon the guidance received. Citi’s net income would change by a corresponding  amount. However, a change in recognized FTC carry-forwards would not impact Citi’s regulatory capital, given that such amounts are already fully disallowed. Citi does not expect to be subject to the Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax (BEAT) added by Tax Reform. However, U.S. Treasury guidance regarding BEAT could affect Citi’s decisions as to how to structure its non-U.S. operations, possibly in a less cost efficient manner. In addition, if BEAT were to be applicable to Citi in any given year, it could have a significantly adverse effect on both Citi’s net income and regulatory capital.For additional information on the impact of Tax Reform and on Citi’s DTAs, including the FTCs, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Income Taxes” below and Notes 1 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Citi’s Interpretation or Application of the Complex Tax Laws to Which It Is Subject Could Differ from Those of the Relevant Governmental Authorities, Which Could Result in the Payment of Additional Taxes, Penalties or Interest.Citi is subject to the various tax laws of the U.S. and its states and municipalities, as well as the numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions in which it operates. These tax laws are inherently complex and Citi must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws, including Tax Reform as mentioned above, to its entities, operations and businesses. Citi’s interpretations and application of the tax laws, including with respect to Tax Reform, withholding tax obligations and stamp and other transactional taxes, could differ from that of the relevant governmental taxing authority, which could result in the payment of additional taxes, penalties or interest, which could be material. Citi’s Ongoing Investments and Efficiency Initiatives May Not Be as Successful as It Projects or Expects.Citi continues to make important investments to streamline its infrastructure and improve its client experience. For example, Citi has been investing in higher return businesses, including the U.S. cards and wealth management businesses in Global Consumer Banking as well as certain businesses in Institutional Clients Group, such as equities. Citi continues to invest in its technology systems to enhance its digital capabilities across the franchise. In addition, in 2016, Citi announced a more than $1 billion investment in Citibanamex that is expected to be completed by 2020. Citi’s investment strategy will likely continue to evolve and change as its business strategy and priorities change. Citi also has been pursuing efficiency savings through its technology and digital initiatives, location strategy and organizational simplification. These investments and efficiency initiatives are being undertaken as part of Citi’s overall strategy to meet operational and financial objectives and targets, including earnings growth expectations. There is no guarantee that these or other initiatives Citi may pursue in its businesses or operations will be as productive or effective as Citi expects, or at all. Further, Citi’s ability to achieve expected returns on its investments and costs savings depends, in part, on factors that it cannot control, such as macroeconomic conditions, customer 57and client reactions and ongoing regulatory changes, among others.Citi Has Co-Branding and Private Label Credit Card Relationships with Various Retailers and Merchants and the Failure to Maintain These Relationships Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Results of Operations or Financial Condition.Citi has co-branding and private label relationships through its Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services credit card businesses with various retailers and merchants globally in the ordinary course of business whereby Citi issues credit cards to customers of the retailers or merchants. Citi’s co-branding and private label agreements provide for shared economics between the parties and generally have a fixed term. The five largest relationships constituted an aggregate of approximately 11% of Citi’s revenues for 2017.These relationships could be negatively impacted due to, among other things, declining sales and revenues or other difficulties of the retailer or merchant, termination due to a breach by Citi, the retailer or merchant of its responsibilities, or external factors, including bankruptcies, liquidations, restructurings, consolidations and other similar events. Over the last several years, a number of retailers in the U.S. have continued to experience declining sales, which has resulted in significant numbers of store closures and, in a number of cases, bankruptcies, as retailers attempt to cut costs and compete with online retailers. In addition, as has been widely reported, competition among card issuers, including Citi, for these relationships is significant, and it has become increasingly difficult in recent years to maintain such relationships on the same terms or at all. While various mitigating factors could be available to Citi if any of these events were to occur—such as by replacing the retailer or merchant or offering other card products—such events could negatively impact Citi’s results of operations or financial condition, including as a result of loss of revenues, higher cost of credit, impairment of purchased credit card relationships and contract-related intangibles or other losses (for information on Citi’s credit card related intangibles generally, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).Macroeconomic and Geopolitical Challenges and Uncertainties Globally Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Businesses and Results of Operations.Citi has experienced, and could experience in the future, negative impacts to its businesses and results of operations as a result of macroeconomic and geopolitical challenges, uncertainties and volatility. As a result of a 2016 U.K. referendum, the U.K. triggered Article 50 in March 2017, beginning the two-year period in which the U.K. will negotiate its exit from the EU. Since then, numerous uncertainties have arisen, including, among others, (i) potential changes to Citi’s legal entity and booking model strategy and/or structure in both the U.K. and the EU based on the outcome of negotiations relating to the regulation of financial services; (ii) the potential impact of the exit to the U.K. and European economies and other financial markets; and (iii) the potential  impact to Citi’s exposures to counterparties as a result of any economic slowdown in the U.K. or Europe. In addition, governmental fiscal and monetary actions, or expected actions, such as changes in the federal funds rate and any balance sheet normalization program implemented by the Federal Reserve Board or other central banks, could impact interest rates, economic growth rates, the volatilities of global financial markets, foreign exchange rates and capital flows among countries. Although Citi estimates its overall net interest revenue would generally increase due to higher interest rates, higher rates could adversely affect Citi’s funding costs, levels of deposits in its consumer and institutional businesses and certain business or product revenues. Also, the U.S. Presidential administration has indicated it may pursue protectionist trade and other policies, which could result in additional macroeconomic and/or geopolitical challenges, uncertainties and volatilities. Further, the economic and fiscal situations of certain European countries have remained fragile, and concerns and uncertainties remain in Europe over the potential exit of additional countries from the EU. These and other global macroeconomic and geopolitical challenges, uncertainties and volatilities have negatively impacted, and could continue to negatively impact, Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition, including its credit costs, revenues in its Markets and securities services and other businesses, and AOCI (which would in turn negatively impact Citi’s book and tangible book value).Citi’s Presence in the Emerging Markets Subjects It to Various Risks as well as Increased Compliance and Regulatory Risks and Costs.During 2017, emerging markets revenues accounted for approximately 36% of Citi’s total revenues (Citi generally defines emerging markets as countries in Latin America, Asia (other than Japan, Australia and New Zealand), Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa).Citi’s presence in the emerging markets subjects it to a number of risks, including sovereign volatility, political events, foreign exchange controls, limitations on foreign investment, sociopolitical instability (including from hyper-inflation), fraud, nationalization or loss of licenses, business restrictions, sanctions or asset freezes, potential criminal charges, closure of branches or subsidiaries and confiscation of assets. For example, Citi operates in several countries that have, or have had in the past, strict foreign exchange controls, such as Argentina, that limit its ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars and/or transfer funds outside the country. In prior years, Citi has also discovered fraud in certain emerging markets in which it operates. Political turmoil and other instability have occurred in certain regions and countries, including Asia, the Middle East and Latin America, which have required management time and attention in prior years (e.g., monitoring the impact of sanctions on the Venezuelan and other countries’ economies as well as Citi’s businesses and results of operations).Citi’s emerging markets presence also increases its compliance and regulatory risks and costs. For example, Citi’s operations in emerging markets, including facilitating cross-58border transactions on behalf of its clients, subject it to higher compliance risks under U.S. regulations primarily focused on various aspects of global corporate activities, such as anti-money laundering regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These risks can be more acute in less-developed markets and thus require substantial investment in compliance infrastructure or could result in a reduction in certain of Citi’s business activities. Any failure by Citi to comply with applicable U.S. regulations, as well as the regulations in the countries and markets in which it operates as a result of its global footprint, could result in fines, penalties, injunctions or other similar restrictions, any of which could negatively impact Citi’s results of operations and reputation.Citi’s Inability in Its Resolution Plan Submissions to Address Any Deficiencies Identified or Future Guidance Provided by the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC Could Subject Citi to More Stringent Capital, Leverage or Liquidity Requirements, or Restrictions on Its Growth, Activities or Operations, and Could Eventually Require Citi to Divest Assets or Operations.Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act requires Citi to prepare and submit a plan to the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC for the orderly resolution of Citigroup (the bank holding company) and its significant legal entities, under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of future material financial distress or failure. Citi submitted its most recent resolution plan in July 2017. On December 19, 2017, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC informed Citi that (i) the agencies jointly decided that Citi’s 2017 resolution plan submission satisfactorily addressed the shortcomings identified in the 2015 resolution plan submission, and (ii) the agencies did not identify any deficiencies in the 2017 resolution plan submission. Citi’s next resolution plan submission is due July 1, 2019. For additional information on Citi’s 2017 resolution plan submission, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below.Under Title I, if the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC jointly determine that Citi’s resolution plan is not “credible” (which, although not defined, is generally believed to mean the regulators do not believe the plan is feasible or would otherwise allow the regulators to resolve Citi in a way that protects systemically important functions without severe systemic disruption), or would not facilitate an orderly resolution of Citi under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and Citi fails to resubmit a resolution plan that remedies any identified deficiencies, Citi could be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, or restrictions on its growth, activities or operations. If within two years from the imposition of any requirements or restrictions Citi has still not remediated any identified deficiencies, then Citi could eventually be required to divest certain assets or operations. Any such restrictions or actions would negatively impact Citi’s reputation, market and investor perception, operations and strategy. Citi’s Performance and the Performance of Its Individual Businesses Could Be Negatively Impacted if Citi Is Not Able to Hire and Retain Highly Qualified Employees for Any Reason.Citi’s performance and the performance of its individual businesses largely depends on the talents and efforts of its highly skilled employees. Specifically, Citi’s continued ability to compete in its businesses, to manage its businesses effectively and to continue to execute its overall global strategy depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its existing employees. If Citi is unable to continue to attract and retain the most highly qualified employees for any reason, Citi’s performance, including its competitive position, the successful execution of its overall strategy and its results of operations could be negatively impacted.Citi’s ability to attract and retain employees depends on numerous factors, some of which are outside of its control. For example, the banking industry generally is subject to more stringent regulation of executive and employee compensation than other industries, including deferral and clawback requirements for incentive compensation. Citi often competes in the market for talent with entities that are not subject to such significant regulatory restrictions on the structure of incentive compensation. Other factors that could impact Citi’s ability to attract and retain employees include its culture, compensation, and the management and leadership of the company as well as its individual businesses, presence in the particular market or region at issue and the professional opportunities it offers. U.S. and Non-U.S. Financial Services Companies and Others Pose Increasingly Competitive Challenges to Citi.Citi operates in an increasingly competitive environment, which includes both financial and non-financial services firms. These companies compete on the basis of, among other factors, quality and type of products and services offered, price, technology and reputation. Citi competes with financial services companies in the U.S. and globally, which continually develop and introduce new products and services. In addition, in recent years, non-financial services firms, such as financial technology firms, have begun to offer services traditionally provided by financial institutions, such as Citi. These firms attempt to use technology and mobile platforms to enhance the ability of companies and individuals to borrow money, save and invest. To the extent it is not able to effectively compete with these and other firms, Citi could be placed at a competitive disadvantage, which could result in loss of customers and market share, and its businesses, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. For additional information on Citi’s competitors, see the co-brand and private label cards risk factor above and “Supervision, Regulation and Other—Competition” below.59CREDIT RISKSConcentrations of Risk Can Increase the Potential for Citi to Incur Significant Losses.Concentrations of risk, particularly credit and market risk, can increase Citi’s risk of significant losses. As of year-end 2017, Citi’s most significant concentration of credit risk was with the U.S. government and its agencies, which primarily results from trading assets and investments issued by the U.S. government and its agencies (for additional information, including concentrations of credit risk to other public sector entities, see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Citi also routinely executes a high volume of securities, trading, derivative and foreign exchange transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including banks, insurance companies, investment banks, governments, central banks and other financial institutions.As regulatory or market developments continue to lead to increased centralization of trading activity through particular clearing houses, central agents, exchanges or other financial market utilities, Citi could also experience an increase in concentration of risk to these industries. These concentrations of risk as well as the risk of failure of a large counterparty, central counterparty clearing house or financial market utility could limit the effectiveness of Citi’s hedging strategies and cause Citi to incur significant losses.LIQUIDITY RISKSThe Maintenance of Adequate Liquidity and Funding Depends on Numerous Factors, Including Those Outside of Citi’s Control, Such as Market Disruptions and Increases in Citi’s Credit Spreads.As a global financial institution, adequate liquidity and sources of funding are essential to Citi’s businesses. Citi’s liquidity and sources of funding can be significantly and negatively impacted by factors it cannot control, such as general disruptions in the financial markets, governmental fiscal and monetary policies, regulatory changes or negative investor perceptions of Citi’s creditworthiness.In addition, Citi’s costs to obtain and access secured funding and long-term unsecured funding are directly related to its credit spreads. Changes in credit spreads constantly occur and are market driven, including both external market factors and factors specific to Citi, and can be highly volatile. Moreover, Citi’s ability to obtain funding may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to access the markets at the same time, or if market appetite is reduced, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. A sudden drop in market liquidity could also cause a temporary or lengthier dislocation of underwriting and capital markets activity. In addition, clearing organizations, regulators, clients and financial institutions with which Citi interacts may exercise the right to require additional collateral based on these market perceptions or market conditions, which could further impair Citi’s access to and cost of funding.As a holding company, Citi relies on interest, dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund  dividends as well as to satisfy its debt and other obligations. Several of Citi’s U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are or may be subject to capital adequacy or other regulatory or contractual restrictions on their ability to provide such payments, including any local regulatory stress test requirements. Limitations on the payments that Citi receives from its subsidiaries could also impact its liquidity. The Credit Rating Agencies Continuously Review the Credit Ratings of Citi and Certain of Its Subsidiaries, and Ratings Downgrades Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Funding and Liquidity Due to Reduced Funding Capacity and Increased Funding Costs, Including Derivatives Triggers That Could Require Cash Obligations or Collateral Requirements.The credit rating agencies, such as Fitch, Moody’s and S&P, continuously evaluate Citi and certain of its subsidiaries, and their ratings of Citi and its more significant subsidiaries’ long-term/senior debt and short-term/commercial paper, as applicable, are based on a number of factors, including standalone financial strength, as well as factors not entirely within the control of Citi and its subsidiaries, such as the agencies’ proprietary rating agency methodologies and assumptions and conditions affecting the financial services industry and markets generally.Citi and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their current respective ratings. Ratings downgrades could negatively impact Citi’s ability to access the capital markets and other sources of funds as well as the costs of those funds, and its ability to maintain certain deposits. A ratings downgrade could also have a negative impact on Citi’s funding and liquidity due to reduced funding capacity, as well as the impact of derivative triggers, which could require Citi to meet cash obligations and collateral requirements. In addition, a ratings downgrade could also have a negative impact on other funding sources, such as secured financing and other margined transactions for which there may be no explicit triggers, as well as on contractual provisions and other credit requirements of Citi’s counterparties and clients, which may contain minimum ratings thresholds in order for Citi to hold third-party funds.Moreover, credit ratings downgrades can have impacts that may not be currently known to Citi or are not possible to quantify. For example, some entities may have ratings limitations as to their permissible counterparties, of which Citi may or may not be aware. In addition, certain of Citi’s corporate customers and trading counterparties, among other clients, could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi and limit the trading of certain contracts or market instruments with Citi in response to ratings downgrades. Changes in customer and counterparty behavior could impact not only Citi’s funding and liquidity but also the results of operations of certain Citi businesses. For additional information on the potential impact of a reduction in Citi’s or Citibank’s credit ratings, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below.60OPERATIONAL RISKSA Disruption of Citi’s Operational Systems Could Negatively Impact Citi’s Reputation, Customers, Clients, Businesses or Results of Operations and Financial Condition.A significant portion of Citi’s operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information as well as the monitoring of a large number of complex transactions on a minute-by-minute basis. For example, through its Global Consumer Banking and credit card and securities services businesses in Institutional Clients Group, Citi obtains and stores an extensive amount of personal and client-specific information for its retail, corporate and governmental customers and clients and must accurately record and reflect their extensive account transactions.With the evolving proliferation of new technologies and the increasing use of the Internet, mobile devices and cloud technologies to conduct financial transactions, large global financial institutions such as Citi have been, and will continue to be, subject to an increasing risk of operational disruption or cyber or information security incidents from these activities (for additional information on cybersecurity risk, see the discussion below). These incidents are unpredictable and can arise from numerous sources, not all of which are in Citi’s control, including among others human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees, accidental technological failure, electrical or telecommunication outages, failures of computer servers or other similar damage to Citi’s property or assets. These issues can also arise as a result of failures by third parties with which Citi does business, such as failures by Internet, mobile technology and cloud service providers or other vendors to adequately safeguard their systems and prevent system disruptions or cyber attacks.Such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in the operations of Citi (such as the temporary loss of availability of Citi’s online banking system or mobile banking platform), as well as the operations of its clients, customers or other third parties. Given Citi’s global footprint and the high volume of transactions processed by Citi, certain errors or actions may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified, which would further increase these costs and consequences. Any such events could also result in financial losses as well as misappropriation, corruption or loss of confidential and other information or assets, which could negatively impact Citi’s reputation, customers, clients, businesses or results of operations and financial condition, perhaps significantly.Citi’s and Third Parties’ Computer Systems and Networks Have Been, and Will Continue to Be, Subject to an Increasing Risk of Continually Evolving, Sophisticated Cybersecurity Risks That Could Result in the Theft, Loss, Misuse or Disclosure of Confidential Client or Customer Information, Damage to Citi’s Reputation, Additional Costs to Citi, Regulatory Penalties, Legal Exposure and Financial Losses.Citi’s computer systems, software and networks are subject to ongoing cyber incidents such as unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information),  account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks and other similar events. These threats can arise from external parties, including criminal organizations, extremist parties and certain foreign state actors that engage in cyber activities. Third parties with which Citi does business, as well as retailers and other third parties with which Citi’s customers do business, may also be sources of cybersecurity risks, particularly where activities of customers are beyond Citi’s security and control systems. For example, Citi outsources certain functions, such as processing customer credit card transactions, uploading content on customer-facing websites, and developing software for new products and services. These relationships allow for the storage and processing of customer information by third-party hosting of or access to Citi websites, which could result in compromise or the potential to introduce vulnerable or malicious code, resulting in security breaches impacting Citi customers. Furthermore, because financial institutions are becoming increasingly interconnected with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, including as a result of the derivatives reforms over the last few years, Citi has increased exposure to cyber attacks through third parties.As further evidence of the increasing and potentially significant impact of cyber incidents, in 2017, a credit bureau reported a cyber incident that impacted sensitive information of an estimated 143 million consumers. In addition, in recent years, several U.S. retailers and financial institutions and other multinational companies reported cyber incidents that compromised customer data or resulted in theft of funds or theft or destruction of corporate information or other assets. Moreover, the U.S. government as well as several multinational companies reported cyber incidents in prior years that affected their computer systems resulting in the data of millions of customers and employees being compromised. These incidents have resulted in increased legislative and regulatory scrutiny of firms’ cybersecurity protection services and calls for additional laws and regulations to further enhance protection of consumers’ personal data.While Citi has not been materially impacted by these reported or other cyber incidents, Citi has been subject to other intentional cyber incidents from external sources over the last several years, including (i) denial of service attacks, which attempted to interrupt service to clients and customers, (ii) data breaches, which obtained unauthorized access to customer account data and (iii) malicious software attacks on client systems, which attempted to allow unauthorized entrance to Citi’s systems under the guise of a client and the extraction of client data. While Citi’s monitoring and protection services were able to detect and respond to the incidents targeting its systems before they became significant, they still resulted in limited losses in some instances as well as increases in expenditures to monitor against the threat of similar future cyber incidents. There can be no assurance that such cyber incidents will not occur again, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale.Further, although Citi devotes significant resources to implement, maintain, monitor and regularly upgrade its systems and networks with measures such as intrusion 61detection and prevention and firewalls to safeguard critical business applications, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can provide absolute security. Because the methods used to cause cyber attacks change frequently or, in some cases, are not recognized until launched, Citi may be unable to implement effective preventive measures or proactively address these methods until they are discovered. In addition, while Citi engages in certain actions to reduce the exposure resulting from outsourcing, such as performing onsite security control assessments and limiting third-party access to the least privileged level necessary to perform job functions, these actions cannot prevent all external cyber attacks, information breaches or similar losses.Cyber incidents can result in the disclosure of personal, confidential or proprietary customer or client information, damage to Citi’s reputation with its clients and the market, customer dissatisfaction, additional costs (including credit costs) to Citi (such as repairing systems, replacing customer payment cards or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory penalties, loss of revenues, exposure to litigation and other financial losses, including loss of funds, to both Citi and its clients and customers (for additional information on the potential impact from cyber incidents, see the operational systems risk factor above).While Citi maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions including significant self-insured deductibles, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses.Incorrect Assumptions or Estimates in Citi’s Financial Statements Could Cause Significant Unexpected Losses in the Future, and Changes to Financial Accounting and Reporting Standards or Interpretations Could Have a Material Impact on How Citi Records and Reports Its Financial Condition and Results of Operations.U.S. GAAP requires Citi to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing its financial statements, including reserves related to litigation and regulatory exposures, valuation of DTAs, the estimate of the allowance for credit losses and the fair values of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If Citi’s assumptions or estimates underlying its financial statements are incorrect or differ from actual future events, Citi could experience unexpected losses, some of which could be significant.The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has issued several financial accounting and reporting standards that will govern key aspects of Citi’s financial statements or interpretations thereof when those standards become effective, including those areas where Citi is required to make assumptions or estimates. For example, the FASB’s new accounting standard on credit losses, which will become effective for Citi on January 1, 2020, will require earlier recognition of credit losses on financial assets. The new accounting model requires that lifetime “expected credit losses” on financial assets not recorded at fair value through net income, such as loans and held-to-maturity securities, be recorded at inception of the financial asset, replacing the  multiple existing impairment models under U.S. GAAP that generally require that a loss be “incurred” before it is recognized (for additional information on this and other accounting standards, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below).Changes to financial accounting or reporting standards or interpretations, whether promulgated or required by the FASB or other regulators, could present operational challenges and could require Citi to change certain of the assumptions or estimates it previously used in preparing its financial statements, which could negatively impact how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations generally and/or with respect to particular businesses. For additional information on the key areas for which assumptions and estimates are used in preparing Citi’s financial statements, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below and Notes 1 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Citi May Incur Significant Losses and Its Regulatory Capital and Capital Ratios Could be Negatively Impacted if Its Risk Management Process, Strategies or Models Are Deficient or Ineffective.Citi utilizes a broad and diversified set of risk management and mitigation processes and strategies, including the use of various risk models in analyzing and monitoring the various risks Citi assumes in conducting its activities. For example, Citi uses models as part of its various stress testing initiatives across Citi. Citi also relies on data to aggregate, assess and manage various risk exposures. Management of these risks is made even more challenging within a global financial institution such as Citi, particularly given the complex, diverse and rapidly changing financial markets and conditions in which Citi operates.These processes, strategies and models are inherently limited because they involve techniques, including the use of historical data in many circumstances, and judgments that cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome in the markets in which Citi operates, nor can they anticipate the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Citi could incur significant losses and its regulatory capital and capital ratios could be negatively impacted, if Citi’s risk management processes, including its ability to manage and aggregate data in a timely and accurate manner, strategies or models are deficient or ineffective. Such deficiencies or ineffectiveness could also result in inaccurate financial, regulatory or risk reporting.Moreover, Citi’s Basel III regulatory capital models, including its credit, market and operational risk models, currently remain subject to ongoing regulatory review and approval, which may result in refinements, modifications or enhancements (required or otherwise) to these models. Modifications or requirements resulting from these ongoing reviews, as well as any future changes or guidance provided by the U.S. banking agencies regarding the regulatory capital framework applicable to Citi, have resulted in, and could continue to result in, significant changes to Citi’s risk-weighted assets. These changes can negatively impact Citi’s 62capital ratios and its ability to achieve its regulatory capital requirements as it projects or as required.COMPLIANCE, CONDUCT AND LEGAL RISKSOngoing Implementation and Interpretation of Regulatory Changes and Requirements in the U.S. and Globally Have Increased Citi’s Compliance Risks and Costs.As referenced above, over the past several years, Citi has been required to implement a significant number of regulatory changes across all of its businesses and functions, and these changes continue. In some cases, Citi’s implementation of a regulatory requirement is occurring simultaneously with changing or conflicting regulatory guidance, legal challenges or legislative action to modify or repeal existing rules or enact new rules. Moreover, in many cases, these are entirely new regulatory requirements or regimes, resulting in much uncertainty regarding regulatory expectations as to what is definitely required in order to be in compliance. Accompanying this compliance uncertainty is heightened regulatory scrutiny and expectations in the U.S. and globally for the financial services industry with respect to governance and risk management practices, including its compliance and regulatory risks (for a discussion of heightened regulatory expectations on “conduct risk” at, and the overall “culture” of, financial institutions such as Citi, see the legal and regulatory proceedings risk factor below). All of these factors have resulted in increased compliance risks and costs for Citi.Examples of regulatory changes that have resulted in increased compliance risks and costs include (i) the Federal Reserve Board’s “total loss absorbing capacity” (TLAC) requirements, including consequences of a breach of the external long-term debt (LTD) requirement and the clean holding company requirements, given there are no cure periods for the requirements, and the new “anti-evasion” provision that authorizes the Federal Reserve Board to exclude from a bank holding company’s outstanding external LTD any debt having certain features that would, in the Board’s view, “significantly impair” the debt’s ability to absorb losses; (ii) the Volcker Rule, which requires Citi to maintain an extensive global compliance regime, including significant documentation to support the prohibition against proprietary trading; and (iii) a proliferation of laws relating to the limitation of cross-border data movement, including data localization and protection and privacy laws, which can conflict with or increase compliance complexity with respect to anti-money laundering laws.Extensive compliance requirements can result in increased reputational and legal risks, as failure to comply with regulations and requirements, or failure to comply as expected, can result in enforcement and/or regulatory proceedings (for additional discussion, see the legal and regulatory proceedings risk factor below). In addition, increased and ongoing compliance requirements and uncertainties have resulted in higher costs for Citi. For example, Citi employed roughly 30,000 risk, regulatory and compliance staff as of year-end 2017, out of a total employee population of 209,000, compared to approximately 14,000 as of year-end 2008 with a total employee population of 323,000.  These higher regulatory and compliance costs can impede Citi’s ongoing, business-as-usual cost reduction efforts, and can also require management to reallocate resources, including potentially away from ongoing business investment initiatives, as discussed above.Citi Is Subject to Extensive Legal and Regulatory Proceedings, Investigations and Inquiries That Could Result in Significant Penalties and Other Negative Impacts on Citi, Its Businesses and Results of Operations.At any given time, Citi is defending a significant number of legal and regulatory proceedings and is subject to numerous governmental and regulatory examinations, investigations and other inquiries. Over the last several years, the frequency with which such proceedings, investigations and inquiries are initiated have increased substantially, and the global judicial, regulatory and political environment has generally been unfavorable for large financial institutions. The complexity of the federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes in the U.S., coupled with the global scope of Citi’s operations, also means that a single event or issue may give rise to a large number of overlapping investigations and regulatory proceedings, either by multiple federal and state agencies in the U.S. or by multiple regulators and other governmental entities in different jurisdictions.Moreover, U.S. and non-U.S. regulators have been increasingly focused on “conduct risk,” a term used to describe the risks associated with behavior by employees and agents, including third-party vendors utilized by Citi, that could harm clients, customers, investors or the markets, such as improperly creating, selling, marketing or managing products and services or improper incentive compensation programs with respect thereto, failures to safeguard a party’s personal information, or failures to identify and manage conflicts of interest. In addition to increasing Citi’s compliance and reputational risks, this focus on conduct risk could lead to more regulatory or other enforcement proceedings and civil litigation, including for practices which historically were acceptable but are now receiving greater scrutiny. Further, while Citi takes numerous steps to prevent and detect conduct by employees and agents that could potentially harm clients, customers, investors or the markets, such behavior may not always be deterred or prevented. Banking regulators have also focused on the overall culture of financial services firms, including Citi. In addition to regulatory restrictions or structural changes that could result from perceived deficiencies in Citi’s culture, such focus could also lead to additional regulatory proceedings.Further, the severity of the remedies sought in legal and regulatory proceedings to which Citi is subject has increased substantially in recent years. U.S. and certain international governmental entities have increasingly brought criminal actions against, or have sought criminal convictions from, financial institutions, and criminal prosecutors in the U.S. have increasingly sought and obtained criminal guilty pleas or deferred prosecution agreements against corporate entities and other criminal sanctions from those institutions. For example, in 2015, an affiliate of Citi pleaded guilty to an antitrust violation and paid a substantial fine to resolve a U.S. 63Department of Justice investigation into Citi’s foreign exchange business practices. These types of actions by U.S. and international governmental entities may, in the future, have significant collateral consequences for a financial institution, including loss of customers and business, and the inability to offer certain products or services and/or operate certain businesses. Citi may be required to accept or be subject to similar types of criminal remedies, consent orders, sanctions, substantial fines and penalties, remediation and other financial costs or other requirements in the future, including for matters or practices not yet known to Citi, any of which could materially and negatively affect Citi’s businesses, business practices, financial condition or results of operations, require material changes in Citi’s operations or cause Citi reputational harm. Further, many large claims—both private civil and regulatory—asserted against Citi are highly complex, slow to develop and may involve novel or untested legal theories. The outcome of such proceedings is difficult to predict or estimate until late in the proceedings. Although Citi establishes accruals for its legal and regulatory matters according to accounting requirements, Citi’s estimates of, and changes to, these accruals involve significant judgment and may be subject to significant uncertainty, and the amount of loss ultimately incurred in relation to those matters may be substantially higher than the amounts accrued. In addition, certain settlements are subject to court approval and may not be approved.For additional information relating to Citi’s legal and regulatory proceedings and matters, including Citi’s policies on establishing legal accruals, see Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.64Managing Global Risk Table of ContentsMANAGING GLOBAL RISK