RISK FACTORSThe following discussion sets forth what management currently believes could be the most significant risks and uncertainties that could impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Other risks and uncertainties, including those not currently known to Citi or its management, could also negatively impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Thus, the following should not be considered a complete discussion of all of the risks and uncertainties Citi may face.STRATEGIC RISKSCiti’s Ability to Return Capital to Common Shareholders Consistent with Its Capital Planning Efforts and Targets Substantially Depends on the CCAR Process and the Results of Regulatory Stress Tests.Citi’s ability to return capital to its common shareholders consistent with its capital planning efforts and targets, whether through its common stock dividend or through a share repurchase program, substantially depends, among other things, on regulatory approval, including through the CCAR process required by the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) and the supervisory stress tests required under the Dodd-Frank Act. The ability to return capital also depends on Citi’s results of operations and effectiveness in managing its level of risk-weighted assets and GSIB surcharge. Citi’s ability to accurately predict, interpret or explain to stakeholders the outcome of the CCAR process, and thus to address any market or investor perceptions, may be limited as the FRB’s assessment of Citi’s capital adequacy is conducted using the FRB’s proprietary stress test models, as well as a number of qualitative factors, including a detailed assessment of Citi’s “capital adequacy process,” as defined by the FRB. For additional information on Citi’s return of capital to common shareholders in 2018 as well as the CCAR process, supervisory stress test requirements and GSIB surcharge, see “Capital Resources—Overview” and “Capital Resources—Current Regulatory Capital Standards—Stress Testing Component of Capital Planning” above.The FRB has stated that it expects leading capital adequacy practices will continue to evolve and will likely be determined by the FRB each year as a result of its cross-firm review of capital plan submissions. Similarly, the FRB has indicated that, as part of its stated goal to continually evolve its annual stress testing requirements, several parameters of the annual stress testing process may continue to be altered, including the severity of the stress test scenario, the FRB modeling of Citi’s balance sheet and the addition of components deemed important by the FRB. Additionally, in April 2018, the FRB proposed integration of the annual stress testing requirements with ongoing regulatory capital requirements. Proposed changes to the stress testing regime include, among others, introduction of a firm-specific “stress capital buffer” (SCB), which would be equal to the maximum decline in a firm’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio under a severely adverse scenario over a nine-quarter CCAR measurement period, subject to a  minimum requirement of 2.5%. The FRB proposed that the SCB would replace the capital conservation buffer in the firm’s ongoing regulatory capital requirements for Standardized Approach capital ratios. The SCB would be calculated by the FRB using its proprietary data and modeling of each firm’s results. Accordingly, a firm’s SCB would change annually based on the supervisory stress test results, thus potentially resulting in year-to-year volatility in the calculation of the SCB. For additional information on the FRB’s proposal, including calculation of the SCB, see “Capital Resources—Regulatory Capital Standards Developments” above. Although various uncertainties exist regarding the extent of, and the ultimate impact to Citi from, these changes to the FRB’s stress testing and CCAR regimes, these changes would likely increase the level of capital Citi is required or elects to hold, including as part of Citi’s estimated management buffer, thus potentially impacting the extent to which Citi is able to return capital to shareholders.Citi, Its Management and Its Businesses Must Continually Review, Analyze and Successfully Adapt to Ongoing Regulatory and Other Uncertainties and Changes in the U.S. and Globally.Despite the adoption of final regulations in numerous areas impacting Citi and its businesses over the past several years, Citi, its management and its businesses continually face ongoing regulatory uncertainties and changes, both in the U.S. and globally. While the areas of ongoing regulatory uncertainties and changes facing Citi are too numerous to list completely, various examples include, but are not limited to (i) uncertainties and potential fiscal, monetary and regulatory changes arising from the U.S. Presidential administration and Congress; (ii) potential changes to various aspects of the regulatory capital framework applicable to Citi (see the CCAR risk factor and “Capital Resources—Regulatory Capital Standards Developments” above); and (iii) the terms of and other uncertainties resulting from the U.K.’s potential exit from the European Union (EU) (see the macroeconomic challenges and uncertainties risk factor below). Ongoing regulatory uncertainties and changes make Citi’s and its management’s long-term business, balance sheet and budget planning difficult or subject to change. For example, the U.S. Presidential administration has implemented and continues to discuss various changes to certain regulatory requirements, which would require ongoing assessment by management as to the impact to Citi, its businesses and business planning. Business planning is required to be based on possible or proposed rules or outcomes, which can change dramatically upon finalization, or upon implementation or interpretive guidance from numerous regulatory bodies worldwide, and such guidance can change. Moreover, U.S. and international regulatory initiatives have not always been undertaken or implemented on a coordinated basis, and areas of divergence have developed and continue to develop with respect to the scope, interpretation, timing, structure or approach, leading to inconsistent or even conflicting regulations, including within a single jurisdiction. For example, in 2016, the European Commission proposed to 48introduce a new requirement for major banking groups headquartered outside the EU (which would include Citi) to establish an intermediate EU holding company where the foreign bank has two or more institutions (broadly meaning banks, broker-dealers and similar financial firms) established in the EU. While the proposal mirrors an existing U.S. requirement for non-U.S. banking organizations to form U.S. intermediate holding companies, if adopted, it could lead to additional complexity with respect to Citi’s resolution planning, capital and liquidity allocation and efficiency in various jurisdictions. Regulatory changes have also significantly increased Citi’s compliance risks and costs (see the implementation and interpretation of regulatory changes risk factor below). Citi’s Ability to Utilize Its DTAs, and Thus Reduce the Negative Impact of the DTAs on Citi’s Regulatory Capital, Will Be Driven by Its Ability to Generate U.S. Taxable Income and by the Provisions of and Guidance Issued in Connection with Tax Reform.At December 31, 2018, Citi’s net DTAs were $22.9 billion, net of a valuation allowance of $9.3 billion, of which $11.0 billion was excluded from Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital under the U.S. Basel III rules (for additional information, see “Capital Resources—Components of Citigroup Capital” above). Of the net DTAs at December 31, 2018, $6.8 billion related to foreign tax credit carry-forwards (FTCs), net of a valuation allowance. The carry-forward utilization period for FTCs is 10 years and represents the most time-sensitive component of Citi’s DTAs. The FTC carry-forwards at December 31, 2018 expire over the period of 2019-2028. Citi must utilize any FTCs generated in the then-current year tax return prior to utilizing any carry-forward FTCs. The accounting treatment for realization of DTAs, including FTCs, is complex and requires significant judgment and estimates regarding future taxable earnings in the jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise and available tax planning strategies. Citi’s ability to utilize its DTAs, including the FTC components, will be dependent upon Citi’s ability to generate U.S. taxable income in the relevant tax carry-forward periods. Failure to realize any portion of the net DTAs would also have a corresponding negative impact on Citi’s net income and financial returns. The U.S. Department of the Treasury (U.S. Treasury) issued proposed regulations in November 2018 regarding the required allocation of existing FTC carry-forwards to the appropriate FTC baskets as redefined by Tax Reform and the allocation of the overall domestic loss (ODL) to these FTC baskets. An ODL allows a company to recharacterize domestic income as income from sources outside the U.S., which enables a taxpayer to use FTC carry-forwards and FTCs generated in future years, assuming the generation of sufficient U.S. taxed income. If the final regulations issued by the U.S. Treasury differ from the proposed regulations, the valuation allowance against Citi’s FTC carry-forwards would increase or decrease, depending upon the content of the final regulations. Citi’s net income would change by a corresponding amount. However, a change in recognized FTC  carry-forwards would not impact Citi’s regulatory capital, given that such amounts are already fully disallowed. Citi does not expect to be subject to the Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax (BEAT) added by Tax Reform. However, any final BEAT regulations could affect Citi’s decisions as to how to structure its non-U.S. operations, possibly in a less cost-efficient manner. Further, if BEAT were to be applicable to Citi in any given year, it could have a significantly adverse effect on both Citi’s net income and regulatory capital. For additional information on the impact of Tax Reform and on Citi’s DTAs, including the FTCs, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Income Taxes” below and Notes 1 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Citi’s Interpretation or Application of the Complex Tax Laws to Which It Is Subject Could Differ from Those of the Relevant Governmental Authorities, Which Could Result in the Payment of Additional Taxes, Penalties or Interest.Citi is subject to the various tax laws of the U.S. and its states and municipalities, as well as the numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions in which it operates. These tax laws are inherently complex and Citi must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws, including Tax Reform as mentioned above, to its entities, operations and businesses. Citi’s interpretations and application of the tax laws, including with respect to Tax Reform, withholding tax obligations and stamp and other transactional taxes, could differ from that of the relevant governmental taxing authority, which could result in the payment of additional taxes, penalties or interest, which could be material.Citi’s Continued Investments and Efficiency Initiatives May Not Be as Successful as It Projects or Expects. Citi continues to leverage its scale and make incremental investments to deepen client relationships, increase revenue and lower expenses. For example, Citi continues to make investments to enhance its digital capabilities across the franchise, including digital platforms and mobile and cloud architecture. Citi also has been investing in higher return businesses, such as the U.S. cards and wealth management businesses in Global Consumer Banking (GCB) as well as equities and other businesses in Institutional Clients Group (ICG). Citi also continues to execute on its investment of more than $1 billion in Citibanamex through 2020. Further, Citi has been pursuing efficiency savings through various technology and digital initiatives, location strategy and organizational simplification, which are intended to self-fund Citi’s incremental investment initiatives as well as offset growth-related expenses.Citi’s investments and efficiency initiatives are being undertaken as part of its overall strategy to meet operational and financial objectives and targets, including operating efficiency and revenue and earnings growth expectations. There is no guarantee that these or other initiatives Citi may pursue will be as productive or effective as Citi expects, or at all. Citi’s investment and efficiency initiatives may continue to evolve as its business strategies and the market environment change, which could make the initiatives more costly and 49more challenging to implement, and limit their effectiveness. Moreover, Citi’s ability to achieve expected returns on its investments and costs savings depends, in part, on factors that it cannot control, such as macroeconomic conditions, customer, client and competitor actions and ongoing regulatory changes, among others. A Deterioration in or Failure to Maintain Citi’s Co-Branding or Private Label Credit Card Relationships, Including as a Result of any Bankruptcy or Liquidation, Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Results of Operations or Financial Condition.Citi has co-branding and private label relationships through its Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services credit card businesses with various retailers and merchants globally in the ordinary course of business whereby Citi issues credit cards to customers of the retailers or merchants. Citi’s co-branding and private label agreements provide for shared economics between the parties and generally have a fixed term. The five largest relationships, including Sears, constituted an aggregate of approximately 11% of Citi’s revenues in 2018. These relationships could be negatively impacted by, among other things, external factors outside the control of either party to the relationship, such as the general economic environment, declining sales and revenues or other operational difficulties of the retailer or merchant, termination due to a contractual breach by Citi or by the retailer or merchant, or other factors, including bankruptcies, liquidations, restructurings, consolidations or other similar events. Over the last several years, a number of U.S. retailers have continued to experience declining sales, which has resulted in significant numbers of store closures and, in a number of cases, bankruptcies, as retailers attempt to cut costs and reorganize. For example, as previously disclosed, Sears filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in October 2018. On February 11, 2019, after bankruptcy court approval, ESL Investments purchased substantially all of Sears’ assets on a going concern basis, including its credit card program agreement with Citi (for further information, including certain potential impacts to Citi retail services, see “Global Consumer Banking—North America GCB” above). In addition, as has been widely reported, competition among card issuers, including Citi, for these relationships is significant, and it has become increasingly difficult in recent years to maintain such relationships on the same terms or at all. While various mitigating factors could be available to Citi if any of these events were to occur-such as by replacing the retailer or merchant or offering other card products—such events, particularly bankruptcies or liquidations, could negatively impact the results of operations or financial condition of Citi-branded cards, Citi retail services or Citi as a whole, including as a result of loss of revenues, increased expenses, higher cost of credit, impairment of purchased credit card relationships and contract-related intangibles or other losses (for information on Citi’s credit card related intangibles generally, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).  Macroeconomic and Geopolitical Challenges and Uncertainties Globally Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Businesses and Results of Operations.Citi has experienced, and could experience in the future, negative impacts to its businesses and results of operations as a result of macroeconomic and geopolitical challenges, uncertainties and volatility. For example, changes in U.S. trade policies, which have resulted in retaliatory measures from other countries, could result in a reduction or realignment of trade flows among countries and negatively impact businesses, sectors and economic growth rates. Additional areas of uncertainty include, among others, geopolitical tensions and conflicts, natural disasters, election outcomes and other macroeconomic developments, such as those involving economic growth rates, consumer confidence and spending, employment rates and commodity prices.Governmental fiscal and monetary actions, or expected actions, such as changes in interest rate policies and any balance sheet normalization program implemented by a central bank to reduce the size of its balance sheet could significantly impact interest rates, economic growth rates, the volatility of global financial markets, foreign exchange rates and capital flows among countries. For example, in 2017, the FRB began implementing a balance sheet normalization program to reduce the size of the central bank’s balance sheet, although there are various uncertainties regarding the ultimate size of the balance sheet and its composition. Such actions could, among other things, result in higher interest rates. Although Citi estimates its overall net interest revenue would generally increase due to higher interest rates, higher rates could adversely affect Citi’s funding costs, levels of deposits in its consumer and institutional businesses and certain business or product revenues. As a result of the U.K.’s 2016 referendum on exiting the EU, numerous uncertainties have arisen regarding the U.K.’s potential exit from and future relationship with the EU. For example, the terms of a withdrawal continue to be negotiated within the U.K. and between the U.K. and the EU, and it is unclear whether the parties will be able to agree on terms prior to the currently scheduled exit on March 29, 2019. If no agreement is reached on terms of an exit, it could result in what is commonly referred to as a “cliff-edge” or “hard” exit scenario. A hard exit scenario would result in the U.K. and EU losing reciprocal financial services license-passporting rights and require the U.K. to deal with the EU as a third country regime, but without an equivalence regime or transition period in place. A hard exit scenario could cause severe disruptions in the movement of goods and services between the U.K. and EU countries and negatively impact financial markets and the U.K. and EU economies. Citi’s business and operations could be impacted by these and other factors, including the preparedness and reaction of clients, counterparties and financial markets infrastructure. For information about Citi’s actions to manage the U.K.’s potential exit from the EU, see “Managing Global Risk—Strategic Risk—Potential Exit of U.K. from EU” below. Further, the economic and fiscal situations of some EU countries have remained fragile, and concerns and uncertainties remain in Europe over the resulting effects of the U.K.’s potential exit from the EU. 50These and other global macroeconomic and geopolitical challenges, uncertainties and volatilities have negatively impacted, and could continue to negatively impact, Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition, including its credit costs, revenues in its Markets and securities services and other businesses, and AOCI (which would in turn negatively impact Citi’s book and tangible book value). Citi’s Presence in the Emerging Markets Subjects It to Various Risks as well as Increased Compliance and Regulatory Risks and Costs. During 2018, emerging markets revenues accounted for approximately 37% of Citi’s total revenues (Citi generally defines emerging markets as countries in Latin America, Asia (other than Japan, Australia and New Zealand), Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa). Although Citi continues to pursue its target client strategy, Citi’s presence in the emerging markets subjects it to a number of risks, including sovereign volatility, election outcomes, regulatory changes and political events, foreign exchange controls, limitations on foreign investment, sociopolitical instability (including from hyperinflation), fraud, nationalization or loss of licenses, business restrictions, sanctions or asset freezes, potential criminal charges, closure of branches or subsidiaries and confiscation of assets. For example, Citi operates in several countries that have, or have had in the past, strict foreign exchange controls, such as Argentina, that limit its ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars and/or transfer funds outside of the country. In prior years, Citi has also discovered fraud in certain emerging markets in which it operates. Political turmoil and instability have occurred in certain regions and countries, including Asia, the Middle East and Latin America, which have required management time and attention in prior years (such as monitoring the impact of sanctions on certain emerging market economies as well as on Citi’s businesses and results of operations in affected countries). Citi’s emerging markets presence also increases its compliance and regulatory risks and costs. For example, Citi’s operations in emerging markets, including facilitating cross border transactions on behalf of its clients, subject it to higher compliance risks under U.S. regulations primarily focused on various aspects of global corporate activities, such as anti-money laundering regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These risks can be more acute in less-developed markets and thus require substantial investment in compliance infrastructure or could result in a reduction in certain of Citi’s business activities. Any failure by Citi to comply with applicable U.S. regulations, as well as the regulations in the countries and markets in which it operates as a result of its global footprint, could result in fines, penalties, injunctions or other similar restrictions, any of which could negatively impact Citi’s results of operations and reputation (see the implementation and interpretation of regulatory changes and legal and regulatory proceedings risk factors below).  Citi’s Inability in Its Resolution Plan Submissions to Address Any Deficiencies Identified or Guidance Provided by the FRB and FDIC Could Subject Citi to More Stringent Capital, Leverage or Liquidity Requirements, or Restrictions on Its Growth, Activities or Operations, and Could Eventually Require Citi to Divest Assets or Operations.Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act requires Citi to prepare and submit a plan to the FRB and the FDIC for the orderly resolution of Citigroup (the bank holding company) and its significant legal entities, under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of future material financial distress or failure. As previously announced, Citi’s next resolution plan submission is due July 1, 2019. On December 20, 2018, the FRB and FDIC issued final guidance for the 2019 and subsequent resolution plan submissions for the eight U.S. GSIBs, including Citi. For additional information on Citi’s resolution plan submissions, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below. Under Title I, if the FRB and the FDIC jointly determine that Citi’s resolution plan is not “credible” (which, although not defined, is generally believed to mean the regulators do not believe the plan is feasible or would otherwise allow the regulators to resolve Citi in a way that protects systemically important functions without severe systemic disruption), or would not facilitate an orderly resolution of Citi under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and Citi fails to resubmit a resolution plan that remedies any identified deficiencies, Citi could be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, or restrictions on its growth, activities or operations. If within two years from the imposition of any requirements or restrictions Citi has still not remediated any identified deficiencies, then Citi could eventually be required to divest certain assets or operations. Any such restrictions or actions would negatively impact Citi’s reputation, market and investor perception, operations and strategy.Citi’s Performance and the Performance of Its Individual Businesses Could Be Negatively Impacted if Citi Is Not Able to Effectively Compete for Highly Qualified Employees. Citi’s performance and the performance of its individual businesses largely depends on the talents and efforts of its highly skilled employees. Specifically, Citi’s continued ability to compete in its businesses, to manage its businesses effectively and to continue to execute its overall global strategy depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its existing employees. If Citi is unable to continue to attract and retain the most highly qualified employees, Citi’s performance, including its competitive position, the successful execution of its overall strategy and its results of operations could be negatively impacted. Citi’s ability to attract and retain employees depends on numerous factors, some of which are outside of its control. For example, the banking industry generally is subject to more comprehensive regulation of executive and employee compensation than other industries, including deferral and clawback requirements for incentive compensation. Citi often competes in the market for talent with entities that are not subject to such comprehensive regulatory requirements on the structure of incentive compensation, including, among others, 51technology companies. Other factors that could impact Citi’s ability to attract and retain employees include its culture and the management and leadership of the Company as well as its individual businesses, presence in the particular market or region at issue and the professional opportunities it offers.Financial Services Companies and Others as well as Emerging Technologies Pose Increasingly Competitive Challenges to Citi. Citi operates in an increasingly competitive environment, which includes both financial and non-financial services firms, such as traditional banks, online banks, financial technology companies and others. These companies compete on the basis of, among other factors, size, quality and type of products and services offered, price, technology and reputation. Emerging technologies have the potential to intensify competition and accelerate disruption in the financial services industry. Citi competes with financial services companies in the U.S. and globally that continue to develop and introduce new products and services. In recent years, non-financial services firms, such as financial technology companies, have begun to offer services traditionally provided by financial institutions, such as Citi. These firms attempt to use technology and mobile platforms to enhance the ability of companies and individuals to borrow money, save and invest. To the extent Citi is not able to compete effectively with these and other firms, Citi could be placed at a competitive disadvantage, which could result in loss of customers and market share, and its businesses, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. For additional information on Citi’s competitors, see the co-brand and private label cards risk factor above and “Supervision, Regulation and Other—Competition” below.Uncertainties Regarding the Possible Discontinuance of the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or Any Other Interest Rate Benchmark Could Have Adverse Consequences for Market Participants, Including Citi.In 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) noted that market conditions raised serious questions about the future sustainability of LIBOR benchmarks. With the FCA securing voluntary panel bank support to sustain LIBOR only until 2021, the future of LIBOR beyond 2021 remains uncertain. In addition, following guidance provided by the Financial Stability Board (FSB), other regulators have suggested reforming or replacing other benchmark rates with alternative reference rates. Given LIBOR’s extensive use across financial markets, the transition away from LIBOR presents various risks and challenges to financial markets and institutions, including Citi. Citi’s consumer and institutional businesses issue, trade, hold or otherwise use various products and securities that reference LIBOR, including, among others, mortgages and other consumer loans, commercial loans, corporate loans, various types of debt, derivatives and other securities. If not sufficiently planned for, the discontinuation of LIBOR or any other interest rate benchmark could result in increased financial, operational, legal, reputational or compliance risks. For example, a significant challenge will be the impact of LIBOR transition on contractual mechanics of floating rate  financial instruments and contracts that reference LIBOR and mature after 2021. Certain of these instruments and contracts do not provide for alternative reference rates. Even if the instruments and contracts transition to alternative reference rates, the new reference rates are likely to differ from the prior benchmark rates. While there are a number of international working groups focused on transition plans and fallback contract language that seek to address market disruption and value transfer, replacement of LIBOR or any other benchmark with a new benchmark rate could adversely impact the value of and return on existing instruments and contracts. Moreover, replacement of LIBOR or other benchmark rates could result in market dislocations and have other adverse consequences for market participants, including the potential for increased costs, including by requiring Citi to pay higher interest on its obligations, and litigation risks. For information about Citi’s management of LIBOR transition risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Strategic Risk—LIBOR Transition Risk” below.CREDIT RISKSCredit Risk and Concentrations of Risk Can Increase the Potential for Citi to Incur Significant Losses.Credit risk arises from Citi’s lending and other businesses in both GCB and ICG. Citi has credit exposures to counterparties in the U.S. and various countries and jurisdictions globally, including end-of-period consumer loans of $331 billion and end-of-period corporate loans of $354 billion at year-end 2018. A default by a borrower or counterparty, or a decline in the credit quality or value of any underlying collateral, exposes Citi to credit risk. Various macroeconomic, geopolitical and other factors, among other things, can increase Citi’s credit risk and credit costs (for additional information, see co-branding and private label credit card and macroeconomic challenges and uncertainties risk factors above). While Citi provides reserves for probable losses for its credit exposures, such reserves are subject to judgments and estimates that could be incorrect or differ from actual future events (see incorrect assumptions or estimates risk factor below). For additional information on Citi’s credit and country risk, see each respective business’ results of operations above and “Managing Global Risk—Credit Risk” and “Managing Global Risk—Strategic Risk—Country Risk” below and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Concentrations of risk, particularly credit and market risks, can also increase Citi’s risk of significant losses. As of year-end 2018, Citi’s most significant concentration of credit risk was with the U.S. government and its agencies, which primarily results from trading assets and investments issued by the U.S. government and its agencies (for additional information, including concentrations of credit risk to other public sector entities, see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Citi also routinely executes a high volume of securities, trading, derivative and foreign exchange transactions with non-U.S. sovereigns and with counterparties in the financial services industry, including banks, insurance companies, investment banks, governments, central banks and other financial institutions. A rapid deterioration of a large counterparty or within a sector or country where Citi has large 52exposures or unexpected market dislocations could cause Citi to incur significant losses.LIQUIDITY RISKSThe Maintenance of Adequate Liquidity and Funding Depends on Numerous Factors, Including Those Outside of Citi’s Control, Such as Market Disruptions and Increases in Citi’s Credit Spreads.As a global financial institution, adequate liquidity and sources of funding are essential to Citi’s businesses. Citi’s liquidity and sources of funding can be significantly and negatively impacted by factors it cannot control, such as general disruptions in the financial markets, governmental fiscal and monetary policies, regulatory changes or negative investor perceptions of Citi’s creditworthiness, unexpected increases in cash or collateral requirements and the inability to monetize available liquidity resources. For example, Citi competes with other banks and financial institutions for deposits, which represent Citi’s most stable and lowest cost of long-term funding. The competitive environment has increased for retail banking deposits, including as online banks and other competitors have increased rates paid for deposits. More recently, as interest rates have increased, a growing number of customers have transferred deposits to other products, including investments and interest bearing accounts, and/or other financial institutions. This, along with slower industry growth in deposits, has resulted in a more challenging environment for deposits. In addition, as interest rates continue to rise, financial institutions, such as Citi, may have to raise the rates paid for deposits, thus increasing the cost of funds and affecting net interest income and margin. Moreover, Citi’s costs to obtain and access secured funding and long-term unsecured funding are directly related to its credit spreads. Changes in credit spreads constantly occur and are market driven, including both external market factors and factors specific to Citi, and can be highly volatile. For additional information on Citi’s primary sources of funding, see “Liquidity Risk” below. In addition, Citi’s ability to obtain funding may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to access the markets at the same time, or if market appetite is reduced, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. A sudden drop in market liquidity could also cause a temporary or lengthier dislocation of underwriting and capital markets activity. In addition, clearing organizations, central banks, clients and financial institutions with which Citi interacts may exercise the right to require additional collateral based on these market perceptions or market conditions, which could further impair Citi’s access to and cost of funding. As a holding company, Citi relies on interest, dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividends as well as to satisfy its debt and other obligations. Several of Citi’s U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are or may be subject to capital adequacy or other regulatory or contractual restrictions on their ability to provide such payments, including any local regulatory stress test requirements. Limitations on the payments that Citi receives from its subsidiaries could also impact its liquidity.  The Credit Rating Agencies Continuously Review the Credit Ratings of Citi and Certain of Its Subsidiaries, and Ratings Downgrades Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Funding and Liquidity Due to Reduced Funding Capacity and Increased Funding Costs, Including Derivatives Triggers That Could Require Cash Obligations or Collateral Requirements.The credit rating agencies, such as Fitch, Moody’s and S&P, continuously evaluate Citi and certain of its subsidiaries, and their ratings of Citi and its more significant subsidiaries’ long-term/senior debt and short-term/commercial paper, as applicable, are based on a number of factors, including standalone financial strength, as well as factors not entirely within the control of Citi and its subsidiaries, such as the agencies’ proprietary rating methodologies and assumptions, and conditions affecting the financial services industry and markets generally. Citi and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their current respective ratings. Ratings downgrades could negatively impact Citi’s ability to access the capital markets and other sources of funds as well as the costs of those funds, and its ability to maintain certain deposits. A ratings downgrade could also have a negative impact on Citi’s funding and liquidity due to reduced funding capacity, as well as the impact of derivative triggers, which could require Citi to meet cash obligations and collateral requirements. In addition, a ratings downgrade could also have a negative impact on other funding sources, such as secured financing and other margined transactions for which there may be no explicit triggers, as well as on contractual provisions and other credit requirements of Citi’s counterparties and clients, which may contain minimum ratings thresholds in order for Citi to hold third-party funds. Moreover, credit ratings downgrades can have impacts that may not be currently known to Citi or are not possible to quantify. For example, some entities may have ratings limitations as to their permissible counterparties, of which Citi may or may not be aware. Further, certain of Citi’s corporate customers and trading counterparties, among other clients, could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi and limit the trading of certain contracts or market instruments with Citi in response to ratings downgrades. Changes in customer and counterparty behavior could impact not only Citi’s funding and liquidity but also the results of operations of certain Citi businesses. For additional information on the potential impact of a reduction in Citi’s or Citibank’s credit ratings, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below.53OPERATIONAL RISKSA Disruption of Citi’s Operational Systems Could Negatively Impact Citi’s Reputation, Customers, Clients, Businesses or Results of Operations and Financial Condition.A significant portion of Citi’s operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information as well as the monitoring of a large number of complex transactions on a minute-by-minute basis. For example, through its GCB and treasury and trade solutions and securities services businesses in ICG, Citi obtains and stores an extensive amount of personal and client-specific information for its retail, corporate and governmental customers and clients and must accurately record and reflect their extensive account transactions. With the evolving proliferation of new technologies and the increasing use of the Internet, mobile devices and cloud technologies to conduct financial transactions, large global financial institutions such as Citi have been, and will continue to be, subject to an increasing risk of operational disruption or cyber or information security incidents from these activities (for additional information on cybersecurity risk, see the discussion below). These incidents are unpredictable and can arise from numerous sources, not all of which are in Citi’s control, including, among others, human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees, accidental technological failure, electrical or telecommunication outages, failures of computer servers or other similar damage to Citi’s property or assets. These issues can also arise as a result of failures by third parties with which Citi does business, such as failures by Internet, mobile technology and cloud service providers or other vendors to adequately safeguard their systems and prevent system disruptions or cyber attacks. Such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in the operations of Citi (such as the temporary loss of availability of Citi’s online banking system or mobile banking platform), as well as the operations of its clients, customers or other third parties. Given Citi’s global footprint and the high volume of transactions processed by Citi, certain errors or actions may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified, which would further increase these costs and consequences. Any such events could also result in financial losses as well as misappropriation, corruption or loss of confidential and other information or assets, which could negatively impact Citi’s reputation, customers, clients, businesses or results of operations and financial condition, perhaps significantly. Citi and Third Parties’ Computer Systems and Networks Have Been, and Will Continue to Be, Susceptible to an Increasing Risk of Continually Evolving, Sophisticated Cybersecurity Activities That Could Result in the Theft, Loss, Misuse or Disclosure of Confidential Client or Customer Information, Damage to Citi’s Reputation, Additional Costs to Citi, Regulatory Penalties, Legal Exposure and Financial Losses.Citi’s computer systems, software and networks are subject to ongoing cyber incidents such as unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information),  account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks and other similar events. These threats can arise from external parties, including cyber criminals, cyber terrorists, hacktivists and nation state actors, as well as insiders who knowingly or unknowingly engage in or enable malicious cyber activities. Third parties with which Citi does business, as well as retailers and other third parties with which Citi’s customers do business, may also be sources of cybersecurity risks, particularly where activities of customers are beyond Citi’s security and control systems. For example, Citi outsources certain functions, such as processing customer credit card transactions, uploading content on customer-facing websites, and developing software for new products and services. These relationships allow for the storage and processing of customer information by third-party hosting of or access to Citi websites, which could result in compromise or the potential to introduce vulnerable or malicious code, resulting in security breaches impacting Citi customers. Furthermore, because financial institutions are becoming increasingly interconnected with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, including as a result of the derivatives reforms over the last few years, Citi has increased exposure to cyber attacks through third parties. Citi has been subject to intentional cyber incidents from external sources over the last several years, including (i) denial of service attacks, which attempted to interrupt service to clients and customers, (ii) data breaches, which obtained unauthorized access to customer account data and (iii) malicious software attacks on client systems, which attempted to allow unauthorized entrance to Citi’s systems under the guise of a client and the extraction of client data. While Citi’s monitoring and protection services were able to detect and respond to the incidents targeting its systems before they became significant, they still resulted in limited losses in some instances as well as increases in expenditures to monitor against the threat of similar future cyber incidents. There can be no assurance that such cyber incidents will not occur again, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale. Further, although Citi devotes significant resources to implement, maintain, monitor and regularly upgrade its systems and networks with measures such as intrusion detection and prevention and firewalls to safeguard critical business applications, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can provide absolute security. Because the methods used to cause cyber attacks change frequently or, in some cases, are not recognized until launched or even later, Citi may be unable to implement effective preventive measures or proactively address these methods until they are discovered. In addition, given the evolving nature of cyber threat actors and the frequency and sophistication of cyber activities they carry out, the determination of the severity and potential impact of a cyber incident may not occur for a substantial period until after the incident has been discovered. Also, while Citi engages in certain actions to reduce the exposure resulting from outsourcing, such as performing security control assessments of third-party vendors and limiting third-party access to the 54least privileged level necessary to perform job functions, these actions cannot prevent all third-party related cyber attacks or data breaches. Cyber incidents can result in the disclosure of personal, confidential or proprietary customer or client information, damage to Citi’s reputation with its clients and the market, customer dissatisfaction and additional costs, including credit costs, to Citi, such as repairing systems, replacing customer payment cards or adding new personnel or protection technologies. Regulatory penalties, loss of revenues, exposure to litigation and other financial losses, including loss of funds, to both Citi and its clients and customers and disruption to Citi’s operational systems could also result from cyber incidents (for additional information on the potential impact of operational disruptions, see the operational systems risk factor above). Moreover, the increasing risk of cyber incidents has resulted in increased legislative and regulatory scrutiny of firms’ cybersecurity protection services and calls for additional laws and regulations to further enhance protection of consumers’ personal data.  While Citi maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions including significant self-insured deductibles, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses.For additional information about Citi’s management of cybersecurity risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Operational Risk—Cybersecurity Risk” below. Incorrect Assumptions or Estimates in Citi’s Financial Statements Could Cause Significant Unexpected Losses in the Future, and Changes to Financial Accounting and Reporting Standards or Interpretations Could Have a Material Impact on How Citi Records and Reports Its Financial Condition and Results of Operations. U.S. GAAP requires Citi to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing its financial statements, including reserves related to litigation and regulatory exposures, valuation of DTAs, the estimate of the allowance for credit losses and the fair values of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If Citi’s assumptions or estimates underlying its financial statements are incorrect or differ from actual events, Citi could experience unexpected losses, some of which could be significant. Periodically, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issues financial accounting and reporting standards that may govern key aspects of Citi’s financial statements or interpretations thereof when those standards become effective, including those areas where Citi is required to make assumptions or estimates. For example, the FASB’s new accounting standard on credit losses (CECL), which will become effective for Citi on January 1, 2020, will require earlier recognition of credit losses on loans and held-to-maturity securities and other financial assets. The CECL methodology requires that lifetime “expected credit losses” be recorded at the time the financial asset is originated or acquired. The expected credit losses are adjusted each period for changes in expected lifetime credit losses. The CECL methodology replaces the multiple existing impairment  models under U.S. GAAP that generally require that a loss be “incurred” before it is recognized. For additional information on this and other accounting standards, including the expected impacts on Citi’s results of operations and financial condition, see “Future Application of Accounting Standards” below. Changes to financial accounting or reporting standards or interpretations, whether promulgated or required by the FASB or other regulators, could present operational challenges and could require Citi to change certain of the assumptions or estimates it previously used in preparing its financial statements, which could negatively impact how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations generally and/or with respect to particular businesses. For additional information on the key areas for which assumptions and estimates are used in preparing Citi’s financial statements, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below and Notes 1 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Citi May Incur Significant Losses and Its Regulatory Capital and Capital Ratios Could Be Negatively Impacted if Its Risk Management Processes, Strategies or Models Are Deficient or Ineffective.Citi utilizes a broad and diversified set of risk management and mitigation processes and strategies, including the use of risk models in analyzing and monitoring the various risks Citi assumes in conducting its activities. For example, Citi uses models as part of its comprehensive stress testing initiatives across Citi. Citi also relies on data to aggregate, assess and manage various risk exposures. Management of these risks is made even more challenging within a global financial institution such as Citi, particularly given the complex, diverse and rapidly changing financial markets and conditions in which Citi operates as well as that losses can occur from untimely, inaccurate or incomplete processes caused by unintentional human error. These processes, strategies and models are inherently limited because they involve techniques, including the use of historical data in many circumstances, assumptions and judgments that cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome in the markets in which Citi operates, nor can they anticipate the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Citi could incur significant losses, and its regulatory capital and capital ratios could be negatively impacted, if Citi’s risk management processes, including its ability to manage and aggregate data in a timely and accurate manner, strategies or models are deficient or ineffective. Such deficiencies or ineffectiveness could also result in inaccurate financial, regulatory or risk reporting. Moreover, Citi’s Basel III regulatory capital models, including its credit, market and operational risk models, currently remain subject to ongoing regulatory review and approval, which may result in refinements, modifications or enhancements (required or otherwise) to these models. Modifications or requirements resulting from these ongoing reviews, as well as any future changes or guidance provided by the U.S. banking agencies regarding the regulatory capital framework applicable to Citi, have resulted in, and could continue to result in, significant changes to Citi’s risk-55weighted assets. These changes can negatively impact Citi’s capital ratios and its ability to achieve its regulatory capital requirements as it projects or as required. COMPLIANCE RISKSOngoing Implementation and Interpretation of Regulatory Changes and Requirements in the U.S. and Globally Have Increased Citi’s Compliance Risks and Costs.As referenced above, over the past several years, Citi has been required to implement a significant number of regulatory changes across all of its businesses and functions, and these changes continue. In some cases, Citi’s implementation of a regulatory requirement is occurring simultaneously with changing or conflicting regulatory guidance, legal challenges or legislative action to modify or repeal existing rules or enact new rules. Moreover, in many cases, these are entirely new regulatory requirements or regimes, resulting in much uncertainty regarding regulatory expectations as to what is definitely required in order to be in compliance. Accompanying this compliance uncertainty is heightened regulatory scrutiny and expectations in the U.S. and globally for the financial services industry with respect to governance and risk management practices, including its compliance and regulatory risks (for a discussion of heightened regulatory expectations on “conduct risk” at, and the overall “culture” of, financial institutions such as Citi, see the legal and regulatory proceedings risk factor below). A failure to resolve any identified deficiencies could result in increased regulatory oversight and restrictions. All of these factors have resulted in increased compliance risks and costs for Citi. Examples of regulatory changes that have resulted in increased compliance risks and costs include (i) a proliferation of laws relating to the limitation of cross-border data movement and/or collection and use of customer information, including data localization and protection and privacy laws, which also can conflict with or increase compliance complexity with respect to other laws, including anti-money laundering laws; and (ii) the FRB’s “total loss absorbing capacity” (TLAC) requirements, including, among other things, consequences of a breach of the clean holding company requirements, given there are no cure periods for the requirements. Extensive compliance requirements can result in increased reputational and legal risks, as failure to comply with regulations and requirements, or failure to comply as expected, can result in enforcement and/or regulatory proceedings (for additional discussion, see the legal and regulatory proceedings risk factor below). Additionally, increased and ongoing compliance requirements and uncertainties have resulted in higher costs for Citi. For example, Citi employed roughly 30,000 risk, regulatory and compliance staff as of year-end 2018, out of a total employee population of 204,000, compared to approximately 14,000 as of year-end 2008 with a total employee population of 323,000. These higher regulatory and compliance costs can impede Citi’s ongoing, business-as-usual cost reduction efforts, and can also require management to reallocate resources, including  potentially away from ongoing business investment initiatives, as discussed above. Citi Is Subject to Extensive Legal and Regulatory Proceedings, Investigations and Inquiries That Could Result in Significant Penalties and Other Negative Impacts on Citi, Its Businesses and Results of Operations.At any given time, Citi is defending a significant number of legal and regulatory proceedings and is subject to numerous governmental and regulatory examinations, investigations and other inquiries. The global judicial, regulatory and political environment has generally been unfavorable for large financial institutions. The complexity of the federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes in the U.S., coupled with the global scope of Citi’s operations, also means that a single event or issue may give rise to a large number of overlapping investigations and regulatory proceedings, either by multiple federal and state agencies in the U.S. or by multiple regulators and other governmental entities in different jurisdictions, as well as multiple civil litigation claims in multiple jurisdictions. Moreover, U.S. and non-U.S. regulators have been increasingly focused on “conduct risk,” a term used to describe the risks associated with behavior by employees and agents, including third-party vendors utilized by Citi, that could harm clients, customers, investors or the markets, such as improperly creating, selling, marketing or managing products and services or improper incentive compensation programs with respect thereto, failures to safeguard a party’s personal information, or failures to identify and manage conflicts of interest. In addition to increasing Citi’s compliance and reputational risks, this focus on conduct risk could lead to more regulatory or other enforcement proceedings and civil litigation, including for practices, which historically were acceptable but now receive greater scrutiny. Further, while Citi takes numerous steps to prevent and detect conduct by employees and agents that could potentially harm clients, customers, investors or the markets, such behavior may not always be deterred or prevented. Banking regulators have also focused on the overall culture of financial services firms, including Citi. In addition to regulatory restrictions or structural changes that could result from perceived deficiencies in Citi’s culture, such focus could also lead to additional regulatory proceedings. In addition, the severity of the remedies sought in legal and regulatory proceedings to which Citi is subject has remained elevated. U.S. and certain international governmental entities have increasingly brought criminal actions against, or have sought criminal convictions from, financial institutions, and criminal prosecutors in the U.S. have increasingly sought and obtained criminal guilty pleas or deferred prosecution agreements against corporate entities and other criminal sanctions from those institutions. These types of actions by U.S. and international governmental entities may, in the future, have significant collateral consequences for a financial institution, including loss of customers and business, and the inability to offer certain products or services and/or operate certain businesses. Citi may be required to accept or be subject to similar types of criminal remedies, consent orders, sanctions, substantial fines and penalties, remediation 56and other financial costs or other requirements in the future, including for matters or practices not yet known to Citi, any of which could materially and negatively affect Citi’s businesses, business practices, financial condition or results of operations, require material changes in Citi’s operations or cause Citi reputational harm. Further, many large claims—both private civil and regulatory—asserted against Citi are highly complex, slow to develop and may involve novel or untested legal theories. The outcome of such proceedings is difficult to predict or estimate until late in the proceedings. Although Citi establishes accruals for its legal and regulatory matters according to accounting requirements, Citi’s estimates of, and changes to, these accruals involve significant judgment and may be subject to significant uncertainty, and the amount of loss ultimately incurred in relation to those matters may be substantially higher than the amounts accrued. In addition, certain settlements are subject to court approval and may not be approved.For additional information relating to Citi’s legal and regulatory proceedings and matters, including Citi’s policies on establishing legal accruals, see Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.57Managing Global Risk Table of ContentsMANAGING GLOBAL RISK