Item 1A. Risk Factors   There have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in Part 1, Item 1A, of our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K except as follows:  Our future results could be materially affected by a number of public health issues, such as the potential H1N1 flu pandemic, whether occurring in the United States or abroad.   Public health issues, such as a potential H1N1 flu pandemic, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of suppliers or customers or have a broader adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels that would negatively affect our suppliers and customers. We have developed contingency plans to address infectious disease scenarios and the potential impact on our operations and will continue to update these plans as necessary. However, there can be no assurance given that these plans will be effective in eliminating the negative impact of any such diseases on the Company’s operating results. We may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   On August 10, 2009, we announced that the Company’s current partnership with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”) had been expanded to include preparations for H1N1 flu vaccine distribution. The H1N1 vaccine distribution effort includes the centralized distribution of the H1N1 flu vaccine and ancillary medical-surgical supplies to as many as 150,000 sites across the country making it one of the largest public health initiatives in the CDC’s history. The Company is managing its part of the H1N1 flu vaccine initiative, which includes distribution of the vaccine to sites designated by state public health departments across the country.  32    Table of Contents  McKESSON CORPORATION   Currently, we have a contract with the CDC for the distribution of its public-sector purchased adult and pediatric vaccines, including those distributed through the Vaccines for Children Program (“VFC”). While a number of important steps to expand our current relationship with the CDC have been accomplished, the CDC and the Company have not yet completed all necessary modifications to the Company’s existing VFC agreement to encompass the H1N1 vaccine distribution program in its entirety. For example, the parties have not yet completed a final modification that will govern the pricing and financial impact of our H1N1 vaccine distribution effort. Moreover, given the unprecedented nature and scope of the H1N1 vaccine distribution program, it is currently unknown how many doses of the vaccine will be made available by vaccine manufacturers or how many doses will be shipped by the Company to sites designated by state public health departments over the life of the program. Due to the above described uncertainties, some of which may continue throughout the remainder of 2010, the Company’s future results of operations and financial condition may be subject to considerable variability. In arriving at the Company’s updated 2010 outlook, which was publicly announced by a Current Report on Form 8-K furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 27, 2009, we considered a broad array of possible outcomes with regard to these program variables. To the degree we failed to adequately prepare for and accurately assess the scope, duration or financial impact of public health issues on our operations, particularly the Company’s current H1N1 flu vaccine distribution effort, our publicly reported results of operations and financial condition may be substantially more or less than that projected for 2010.     Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds