Item 1A.Risk Factors.Following is an update to our risk factors. There have been no other material changes during the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to the risk factors disclosed in Part I, Item 1A, of our 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with our proposed acquisition of Celesio. On October 24, 2013, we and our wholly-owned subsidiary, Dragonfly GmbH & Co. KGaA, each entered into a share purchase agreement with Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH (“Haniel”) and a business combination agreement with Celesio AG, a 50.01% owned subsidiary of Haniel. Under the terms of the share purchase agreement, we have agreed to acquire all shares of Celesio held by Haniel, subject to customary closing conditions (including regulatory approvals) and our successful completion of parallel tender offers for the remaining shares and outstanding convertible bonds of Celesio. The business combination agreement sets forth the terms and conditions under which we are obligated to launch the tender offers, and the conduct of the parties prior to and after the closing of the tender offers. We are not obligated to close on the share purchase agreement or the tender offers unless we have acquired at least 75% of Celesio’s share capital on a fully diluted basis, and certain customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals, have been satisfied or waived. If we acquire at least 75%, but not 100% of Celesio’s shares, we will work, within the framework of existing German laws and standards, to obtain operational control of Celesio. In addition to the risks and uncertainties that are described in Part I, Item 1A, of our 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors - Our business could be hindered if we are unable to complete and integrate acquisitions successfully,” we may face certain risks and uncertainties associated with our acquisition of Celesio.31Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATIONAchieving the anticipated benefits of the Celesio acquisition is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including foreign exchange fluctuations, challenges of managing new international operations, and whether we can ensure continued performance or market growth of Celesio’s product and services. While we have successfully integrated large companies into our operations in the past, and therefore expect a successful integration in this case, the integration process is subject to a number of uncertainties and no assurance can be given that the anticipated benefits of the transaction will be realized or, if realized, the timing of their realization. It is possible that the integration process could take longer than anticipated, and could result in the loss of employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses, processes and systems, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements, any of which could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Celesio acquisition and which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, the failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues, and could adversely affect our future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. Events outside of our control, including changes in regulations and laws, as well as economic trends, could also adversely affect our ability to realize the expected benefits from our acquisition of Celesio. The process for acquiring Celesio, as contemplated by the share purchase agreement and the business combination agreement, is complex and we do not expect to complete the steps required to exercise operating control of Celesio until the second quarter of fiscal 2015. Our obligation to purchase the 50.01% of Celesio shares owned by Haniel and to close on the parallel tender offers is conditioned on, among other things, our acquisition of at least 75% of Celesio share capital on a fully diluted basis (including the shares acquired from Haniel). In the event that the conditions specified in the agreements are not satisfied or waived, or the satisfaction thereof is significantly delayed, it may prevent the Celesio acquisition from being consummated on the anticipated timeline, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, and which could result in our incurring significant expenses related to the Celesio acquisition without realizing the expected benefits. Further, the pursuit of the Celesio acquisition and the preparation for the integration of Celesio’s business over an extended period of time may place a significant burden on our management and internal resources, as well as the management and internal resources of Celesio. Any significant diversion of management’s attention away from the ongoing businesses and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could adversely affect our financial results, both prior to and after the acquisition. Our $1.35 billion accounts receivable sales facility is generally renewed annually and will expire in November 2013. Historically, we have primarily used the accounts receivable sales facility to fund working capital requirements, as needed, but could also utilize the facility for our acquisition of Celesio. Although we believe we will be able to renew this facility before it expires, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so or if it will be available for the acquisition of Celesio. We entered into a $5.5 billion senior bridge term loan agreement in connection with the proposed acquisition of Celesio, which contains terms substantially similar to our existing revolving credit facility. The senior bridge term loan agreement was put in place to fund the purchase of Celesio shares from Haniel and the parallel tender offers, and a permanent financing structure will be determined based on the timing and threshold of Celesio shares and convertible bonds that we acquire in the parallel tender offers. While we believe that our operating cash flow, financial assets, current access to capital and credit markets, including the senior bridge term loan agreement and our existing revolving credit and sales facilities, will provide us with the ability to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future (including the financing for the Celesio acquisition), there can be no assurance that our incurrence of additional indebtedness, or volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets, will not impair our liquidity, increase our costs of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to obtain at commercially acceptable terms permanent financing for our acquisition of Celesio. Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.