Item 1A. Risk Factors. Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and you should carefully consider them. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. For discussion of our potential risks or uncertainties, please refer to “Item 1A-Risk Factors” included in our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Except as set forth in the following updated risk factors, there have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K.A number of factors outside the Company's control could impair the Company's ability to implement its strategic plans for the Assurant Employee Benefits and Assurant Health segments.The strategic alternatives we are exploring for the Assurant Employee Benefits and Assurant Health segments involve a number of challenges, uncertainties and risks including, but not limited to the possibility that we may be unable to: identify suitable buyers; negotiate a favorable price and acceptable terms and conditions for a disposition; obtain regulatory or other third party approvals; or effectively and economically separate operations and systems in connection with a disposition. In addition, we may incur undue expense or experience undesirable delays in the process. Our inability to execute these plans economically could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.Reform of the health insurance industry could materially reduce the profitability of certain of our businesses or render them unprofitable.The Affordable Care Act and related reforms have made and will continue to make sweeping and fundamental changes to the U.S. health care system. For more information on the Affordable Care Act and its impact on our Assurant Health and Assurant Employee Benefits segments, please see Item 1, “Business - Regulation - Federal Regulation - Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.”Among other requirements, the Affordable Care Act requires that Assurant Health rebate to consumers the difference between its actual loss ratios and required minimum medical loss ratios (by state and legal entity) for certain products. Please see “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion & Analysis - Critical Accounting Estimates - Health Insurance Premium Rebate Liability” for more information about the minimum medical loss ratio and the Company’s rebate estimate calculations. In addition, the Affordable Care Act imposes limitations on the deductibility of compensation and certain other payments.Although Assurant Health has made, and continues to make, significant changes to its operations and products to adapt to the new environment, this business continues to experience losses, which we have been and may continue to be unable to limit to the extent we would like. In addition, the results of our health insurance operations are heavily dependent on the ongoing implementation of the reinsurance, risk adjustment and risk corridors programs under the Affordable Care Act. These programs may not be effective in appropriately mitigating any adverse effects of the Affordable Care Act on the Company. Furthermore, the reinsurance and risk corridor programs may not be adequately funded by the United States Congress from time to time. Consequently, it may be difficult, in some circumstances, to capture, determine and deliver amounts payable to or receivable by us under these programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.In addition, some uncertainty remains surrounding the mechanics of inclusion of pediatric dental coverage in the package of essential health benefits; unfavorable resolution of this uncertainty could decrease revenues in our Assurant Employee Benefits business.58Any inability of our businesses to adapt to requirements of the Affordable Care Act and any significant continuing uncertainty with respect to its implementation could lead to a material reduction in their profitability.Changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth.Legislation or other regulatory reform that increases the regulatory requirements imposed on us or that changes the way we are able to do business may significantly harm our business or results of operations in the future. If we were unable for any reason to comply with these requirements, it could result in substantial costs to us and may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.In addition, new interpretations of existing laws, or new judicial decisions affecting the insurance industry, could adversely affect our business.Legislative or regulatory changes that could significantly harm our subsidiaries and us include, but are not limited to:•imposed reductions on premium levels, limitations on the ability to raise premiums on existing policies, or new minimum loss ratios;•increases in minimum capital, reserves and other financial viability requirements;•enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future financial crises or to otherwise ensure the stability of institutions;•new licensing requirements;•restrictions on the ability to offer certain types of insurance products or service contracts;•prohibitions or limitations on provider financial incentives and provider risk-sharing arrangements;•more stringent standards of review for claims denials or coverage determinations;•additional guaranteed-issue requirements restricting our ability to limit or deny coverage;•new benefit mandates;•increased regulation relating to lender-placed insurance;•limitations on the ability to manage health care and utilization due to direct access laws that allow insureds to seek services directly from specialty medical providers without referral by a primary care provider;•new or enhanced regulatory requirements that require insurers to pay claims on terms other than those mandated by underlying policy contracts; and•restriction of solicitation of insurance consumers by funeral board laws for prefunded funeral insurance coverage.In recent years, significant attention has been focused on the procedures that life insurers follow to identify unreported death claims. In November 2011, the National Conference of Insurance Legislators (“NCOIL”) proposed a model rule that would govern unclaimed property policies for insurers and mandate the use of the U.S. Social Security Administration’s Death Master File (the “Death Master File”) to identify deceased policyholders and beneficiaries. Certain state insurance regulators have also focused on this issue. For example, the NYDFS issued a letter requiring life insurers doing business in New York to use data from the Death Master File to search proactively for deceased policyholders and to pay claims without the receipt of a valid claim by or on behalf of a beneficiary. The Company evaluated the impact of the NCOIL model rule and established reserves for additional claim liabilities in certain of its businesses. It is possible that existing reserves may be inadequate and need to be increased and/or that the Company may be required to establish reserves for businesses the Company does not currently believe are subject to the NCOIL model rule or any similar regulatory requirement. In addition, it is possible that these regulators or regulators in other states may adopt regulations similar to the NCOIL model rule or to the requirements imposed by the NYDFS.In addition, regulators in certain states have hired third party auditors to audit the unclaimed property records of insurance companies operating in those states. Among other companies, the Company is currently subject to these audits in a number of states and has been responding to information requests from these auditors.Proposals are currently pending to amend state insurance holding company laws to increase the scope of insurance holding company regulation. These include the NAIC “Solvency Modernization Initiative” focuses on capital requirements, and the Solvency II Directive, which was adopted in the European Union on November 25, 2009 and is expected to become effective in 2016. The Solvency II Directive reforms the insurance industry’s solvency framework, including, among other items, minimum capital and solvency requirements.Various state and federal regulatory authorities have taken actions with respect to our lender-placed insurance business. On January 16, 2015, the State of Indiana issued an examination warrant to the Company's subsidiary, American Security Insurance Company, and initiated a multistate targeted market conduct examination regarding the Company's lender-placed insurance products. At present, 42 states are participating in the examination. The Company is cooperating with the investigation and responding to requests for information and documents.59We cannot predict the full effect of these or any other regulatory initiatives on the Company at this time, but they could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of ProceedsRepurchase of Equity Securities:Period in 2015TotalNumber ofShares Repurchased Average PricePaid Per Share Total Number of SharesRepurchased as Part ofPublicly AnnouncedPrograms (1) ApproximateDollar Value ofShares thatMay Yet beRepurchasedUnder thePrograms (1)January 1-31529,100 $65.51 529,100 $452,018February 1-28120,000 61.07 120,000 444,691March 1-31645,000 61.50 645,000 405,035Total1,294,100 $63.10 1,294,100 $405,035 (1)Shares purchased pursuant to the November 15, 2013 publicly announced share repurchase authorization of up to $600,000 of outstanding common stock.60Item 6. Exhibits.