Item 1A. Risk FactorsCertain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and you should carefully consider them. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. For discussion of potential risks or uncertainties affecting us, please refer to “Item 1A-Risk Factors” included in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Except as set forth in the following risk factors, which have been updated primarily for the sale of our Assurant Employee Benefits segment, there have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Significant competitive pressures could affect our results of operations.We compete for customers and distributors with many insurance companies and other financial services companies for business and individual customers, group customers, agents, brokers and other distribution relationships, and with logistics and mobile device repair companies for the business of cell phone carriers and original equipment manufacturers. Some of our competitors may offer a broader array of products than our subsidiaries or have a greater diversity of distribution resources, better brand recognition, more competitive pricing, lower costs, greater financial strength, more resources, or higher ratings.There is a risk that purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors, rather than renewing coverage with us. As a result, competition may adversely affect the persistency of our policies, as well as our ability to sell products. In addition, some of our competitors may price their products below ours, putting us at a competitive disadvantage and potentially adversely affecting our revenues and results of operations.Additionally, for Assurant Solutions, our ability to adequately and effectively price our products is affected by, among other things, the evolving nature of consumer needs and preferences and improvements in technology, which could cause us to reduce the price of products and services we offer. For Assurant Specialty Property, our lender-placed homeowners insurance program and certain of our manufactured housing products are not underwritten on an individual policy basis and our contracts with clients require us to issue these policies automatically when a borrower’s insurance coverage is not maintained. Consequently, our inability to adequately monitor and provide for pricing adequacy for these products, subject to regulatory constraints, could potentially adversely affect our results of operations.New competition and technological advancements could also cause the supply of insurance to change, which could affect our ability to price our products at attractive rates and thereby adversely affect our underwriting results. Although there are some impediments facing potential competitors who wish to enter the markets we serve, the entry of new competitors into our markets can occur, affording our customers significant flexibility in moving to other insurance providers.In our lender-placed insurance business, we use a proprietary insurance-tracking administration system linked with the administrative systems of our clients to monitor the clients’ mortgage portfolios to verify the existence of insurance on each mortgaged property and identify those that are uninsured. If, in addition to our current competitors, others in this industry develop a competing system or equivalent administering capabilities, this could reduce the revenues and results of operations in this business.Sales of our products and services may decline if we are unable to attract and retain sales representatives or to develop and maintain distribution sources.We distribute many of our insurance products and services through a variety of distribution channels, including brokers, managing general agents, captive and independent agents, financial institutions, mortgage lenders and servicers, retailers, funeral homes, association groups and other third-party marketing organizations.58Our relationships with these distributors are significant both for our revenues and profits. We do not distribute our insurance products and services through captive or affiliated agents. There is intense competition between insurers to form relationships with agents and brokers of demonstrated ability. We compete with other insurers for relationships with agents, brokers, and other intermediaries primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services, product features and, more generally, through our ability to meet the needs of their clients, our customers. Independent agents and brokers are typically not exclusively dedicated to us, but instead usually also market the products of our competitors and therefore we face continued competition from our competitors’ products. Moreover, our ability to market our products and services depends on our ability to tailor our channels of distribution to comply with changes in the regulatory environment in which we and such agents and brokers operate.We have our own sales representatives whose distribution process varies by segment. We depend in large part on our sales representatives to develop and maintain client relationships. Our inability to attract and retain effective sales representatives could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.General economic, financial market and political conditions may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Particularly, difficult conditions in financial markets and the global economy may negatively affect the results of all of our business segments.General economic, financial market and political disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Limited availability of credit, deteriorations of the global mortgage and real estate markets, declines in consumer confidence and consumer spending, increases in prices or in the rate of inflation, continuing periods of high unemployment, or disruptive geopolitical events could contribute to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the financial markets, including the market for our stock. These conditions could also affect all of our business segments. Specifically, during periods of economic downturn:•individuals and businesses may (i) choose not to purchase our insurance products, warranties and other related products and services, (ii) terminate existing policies or contracts or permit them to lapse, and (iii) choose to reduce the amount of coverage they purchase;•clients are more likely to experience financial distress or declare bankruptcy or liquidation which could have an adverse impact on the remittance of premiums from such clients as well as the collection of receivables from such clients for items such as unearned premiums;•claims on certain specialized insurance products tend to rise;•there is a higher loss ratio on credit card and installment loan insurance due to rising unemployment and disability levels;•there is an increased risk of fraudulent insurance claims;•insureds tend to increase their utilization of health and dental benefits if they anticipate becoming unemployed or losing benefits; and•substantial decreases in loan availability and origination could reduce the demand for credit insurance that we write or debt cancellation or debt deferment products that we administer, and on the placement of hazard insurance under our lender-placed insurance programs.General inflationary pressures may affect the costs of medical care, as well as repair and replacement costs on our real and personal property lines, increasing the costs of paying claims. Inflationary pressures may also affect the costs associated with our preneed insurance policies, particularly those that are guaranteed to grow with the Consumer Price Index (or “CPI”). Conversely, deflationary pressures may affect the pricing of our products.Additionally, continued uncertainty surrounding the U.S. Federal Reserve’s monetary policy could adversely affect the U.S. and global economy.We may be unable to accurately predict and price for benefits, claims and other costs, which could reduce our profitability.Our profitability could vary depending on our ability to predict and price for benefits, claims and other costs including, but not limited to, medical costs and the frequency and severity of property claims. This ability could be affected by factors such as inflation, changes in the regulatory environment, changes in industry practices, changes in legal, social or environmental conditions, new treatments or technologies. Political or economic conditions can also affect the availability of programs on which our business may rely to accurately predict benefits and claims. The inability to accurately predict and price for benefits, claims and other costs could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.59A.M. Best, Moody’s, and S&P rate the financial strength of our insurance company subsidiaries, and a decline in these ratings could affect our standing in the insurance industry and cause our sales and earnings to decrease.Ratings are important considerations in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. A.M. Best rates most of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries. Moody’s rates six of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries and S&P rates seven of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries. These ratings are subject to periodic review by A.M. Best, Moody’s, and S&P, and we cannot assure that we will be able to retain them. In 2015, Time Insurance Company and John Alden Life Insurance Company experienced multiple rating actions as a result of Assurant’s decision to exit the health insurance market in 2016 and higher than anticipated losses in 2015. The following actions took place: A.M. Best downgraded the companies from A- to B+, Moody’s downgraded the companies from Baa2 to Ba1 and revised the outlook to negative, and S&P downgraded the companies from BBB to BB+. Rating agencies may change their methodology or requirements for determining ratings, or they may become more conservative in assigning ratings. Rating agencies or regulators could also increase capital requirements for the Company or its subsidiaries. Any reduction in our ratings could materially adversely affect the demand for our products from intermediaries and consumers and materially adversely affect our results. In addition, any reduction in our financial strength ratings could materially adversely affect our cost of borrowing.As of March 31, 2016, contracts representing approximately 38% of Assurant Solutions’ and 31% of Assurant Specialty Property’s net earned premiums and fee income contain provisions requiring the applicable subsidiaries to maintain minimum A.M. Best financial strength ratings ranging from “A” or better to “B” or better, depending on the contract. Our clients may terminate these contracts or fail to renew them if the subsidiaries’ ratings fall below these minimums. Termination or failure to renew these agreements could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Market conditions, changes in interest rates, and prolonged periods of low interest rates may materially affect our results.Recent periods have been characterized by low interest rates. A prolonged period during which interest rates remain at historically low levels may result in lower-than-expected net investment income and larger required reserves. In addition, certain statutory capital requirements are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates and a prolonged period of low interest rates may increase the statutory capital we are required to hold.Changes in interest rates may materially adversely affect the performance of some of our investments. Interest rate volatility may increase or reduce unrealized gains or unrealized losses in our portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Fixed maturity and short-term investments represented 83% of the fair value of our total investments as of March 31, 2016. The fair market value of the fixed maturity securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. Because all of our fixed maturity securities are classified as available for sale, changes in the market value of these securities are reflected in our consolidated balance sheets. Their fair market value generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income from fixed maturity investments increases or decreases directly with interest rates. In addition, actual net investment income and cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. An increase in interest rates will also decrease the net unrealized gains in our current investment portfolio.We employ asset/liability management strategies to manage the adverse effects of interest rate volatility and the likelihood that cash flows are unavailable to pay claims as they become due. Our asset/liability management strategies do not completely eliminate the adverse effects of interest rate volatility, and significant fluctuations in the level of interest rates may require us to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to pay claims and policyholder benefits. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Our preneed insurance policies are generally whole life insurance policies with increasing death benefits. In extended periods of declining interest rates or rising inflation, there may be compression in the spread between the death benefit growth rates on these policies and the investment income that we can earn, resulting in a negative spread. As a result, declining interest rates or high inflation rates may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our overall financial condition. See “Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Inflation Risk” in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.60Through reinsurance, we have sold businesses that could again become our direct financial and administrative responsibility if the reinsurers become insolvent.In the past, we have sold, and in the future we may sell, businesses through reinsurance ceded to third parties. For example, in 2001 we sold the insurance operations of our Fortis Financial Group (“FFG”) division to The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (“The Hartford”) and in 2000 we sold our Long Term Care (“LTC”) division to John Hancock Life Insurance Company (“John Hancock”), now a subsidiary of Manulife Financial Corporation. In 2016, we sold our Assurant Employee Benefits segment to Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (“Sun Life”). Most of the assets backing reserves coinsured under these sales are held in trusts or separate accounts. However, if the reinsurers became insolvent, we would be exposed to the risk that the assets in the trusts and/or the separate accounts would be insufficient to support the liabilities that would revert to us.In January 2013, The Hartford sold its Individual Life Operations to Prudential Financial, Inc. (“Prudential”). Included in this transaction are the individual life policies remaining in force that were originally transferred to The Hartford as part of the sale of FFG. The assets backing the reserves coinsured from The Hartford to Prudential continue to be held in trusts or separate accounts, and we are subject to the risk that the trust and/or separate account assets are insufficient to support the liabilities that would revert to us. Although The Hartford remains responsible for the sufficiency of the assets backing the reserves, we face risks related to any administrative system changes Prudential implements in administering the business.The A.M. Best ratings of The Hartford, John Hancock and Sun Life are currently A-, A+ and A+, respectively. A.M. Best currently maintains a stable outlook on each of their financial strength ratings.We also face the risk of again becoming responsible for administering these businesses in the event of reinsurer insolvency. We do not currently have the administrative systems and capabilities to process these businesses. Accordingly, we would need to obtain those capabilities in the event of an insolvency of one or more of the reinsurers. We might be forced to obtain such capabilities on unfavorable terms with a resulting material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, third parties to whom we have sold businesses in the past may in turn sell these businesses to other third parties, and we could face risks related to the new administrative systems and capabilities of these third parties in administering these businesses.For more information on these arrangements, including the reinsurance recoverables and risk mitigation mechanisms used, please see “Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks - Credit Risk” in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth.Legislation or other regulatory reform that increases the regulatory requirements imposed on us or that changes the way we are able to do business may significantly harm our business or results of operations in the future. If we were unable for any reason to comply with these requirements, it could result in substantial costs to us and may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.In addition, new interpretations of existing laws, or new judicial decisions affecting the insurance industry, could adversely affect our business.Legislative or regulatory changes that could significantly harm our subsidiaries and us include, but are not limited to:•imposed reductions on premium levels, limitations on the ability to raise premiums on existing policies, or new minimum loss ratios;•increases in minimum capital, reserves and other financial viability requirements;•enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future financial crises or to otherwise ensure the stability of institutions;•new licensing requirements;•restrictions on the ability to offer certain types of insurance products or service contracts;•prohibitions or limitations on provider financial incentives and provider risk-sharing arrangements;•more stringent standards of review for claims denials or coverage determinations;•increased regulation relating to lender-placed insurance;61•limitations on the ability to manage health care and utilization due to direct access laws that allow insureds to seek services directly from specialty medical providers without referral by a primary care provider;•new or enhanced regulatory requirements that require insurers to pay claims on terms other than those mandated by underlying policy contracts; and•restriction of solicitation of insurance consumers by funeral board laws for prefunded funeral insurance coverage.In recent years, significant attention has been focused on the procedures that life insurers follow to identify unreported death claims. In November 2011, the National Conference of Insurance Legislators (“NCOIL”) proposed a model rule that would govern unclaimed property policies for insurers and mandate the use of the U.S. Social Security Administration’s Death Master File (the “Death Master File”) to identify deceased policyholders and beneficiaries. Certain state insurance regulators have also focused on this issue. For example, the NYDFS issued a letter requiring life insurers doing business in New York to use data from the Death Master File to search proactively for deceased policyholders and to pay claims without the receipt of a valid claim by or on behalf of a beneficiary. The Company evaluated the impact of the NCOIL model rule and established reserves for additional claim liabilities in certain of its businesses. It is possible that existing reserves may be inadequate and need to be increased and/or that the Company may be required to establish reserves for businesses the Company does not currently believe are subject to the NCOIL model rule or any similar regulatory requirement. In addition, it is possible that these regulators or regulators in other states may adopt regulations similar to the NCOIL model rule or to the requirements imposed by the NYDFS.In addition, regulators in certain states have hired third party auditors to audit the unclaimed property records of insurance companies operating in those states. Among other companies, the Company is currently subject to these audits in a number of states and has been responding to information requests from these auditors.Several proposals have been adopted or are currently pending to amend state insurance holding company laws to increase the scope of insurance holding company regulation. The timing of their adoption and content will vary by state. These proposals include the NAIC “Solvency Modernization Initiative,” which focuses on capital requirements, as well as the Own Risk Solvency Assessment (“ORSA”), which requires large- and medium-size U.S. insurers and insurance groups to regularly perform an ORSA and file a confidential ORSA Summary Report of the assessment with the regulator of each insurance company upon request. Additionally, the European Union Solvency II Directive became effective in January 2016. The Solvency II Directive reforms the insurance industry’s solvency framework, including, among other items, minimum capital and solvency requirements.Various state and federal regulatory authorities have taken actions with respect to our lender-placed insurance business. On January 16, 2015, at the request of the Indiana Department of Insurance, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (the “NAIC”) authorized an industry-wide multistate targeted market conduct examination focusing on lender placed insurance. Several insurance companies, including American Security Insurance Company, are subject to the examination. At present, 44 jurisdictions are participating. During the course of the examination, which began in 2015, the Company has cooperated in responding to requests for information and documents and has engaged in various communications with the examiners. The examination continues and no final report has been issued.We cannot predict the full effect of these or any other regulatory initiatives on the Company at this time, but they could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.Reform of the health insurance industry could materially reduce the profitability of certain of our businesses or render them unprofitable.Although the Assurant Health business is in run-off, some provisions of the Affordable Care Act continue to apply to us. As a result, although Assurant Health has made, and continues to make, significant changes to its operations and products to adapt to the new environment consistent with the wind-down, this business continues to experience losses, which we have been and may continue to be unable to limit to the extent we would like through the completion of the wind-down. In addition, the results of our health insurance operations are heavily dependent on the ongoing implementation of the reinsurance, risk adjustment and risk corridors programs under the Affordable Care Act. These programs may not be effective in appropriately mitigating any adverse effects of the Affordable Care Act on the Company. Furthermore, from time to time, the reinsurance and risk corridor programs may not be adequately funded by the industry as required by the Affordable Care Act. Consequently, it may be difficult, in some circumstances, to capture, determine and deliver amounts payable to or receivable by us under these programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.The Affordable Care Act and related reforms have made and will continue to make sweeping and fundamental changes to the U.S. health care system. For more information on the Affordable Care Act and its impact on our Assurant Health segment, 62please see Item 1, “Business - Regulation - Federal Regulation - Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act” in the Annual Report on Form 10-K.Among other requirements, the Affordable Care Act requires that Assurant Health rebate to consumers the difference between its actual loss ratios and required minimum medical loss ratios (by state and legal entity) for certain products. Please see “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion & Analysis - Critical Accounting Estimates - Health Insurance Premium Rebate Liability” in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information about the minimum medical loss ratio and the Company’s rebate estimate calculations. In addition, the Affordable Care Act imposes limitations on the deductibility of compensation and certain other payments.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of ProceedsRepurchase of Equity Securities:(Dollar amounts in thousands, expect number of shares and per share amounts)Period in 2016TotalNumber ofShares Repurchased Average PricePaid Per Share Total Number of SharesRepurchased as Part ofPublicly AnnouncedPrograms (1) ApproximateDollar Value ofShares thatMay Yet beRepurchasedUnder thePrograms (1)January 1-311,147,337 $78.44 1,147,337 $862,125February 1-29869,898 70.69 869,898 800,645March 1-311,405,025 76.12 1,405,025 693,717Total3,422,260 $75.52 3,422,260 $693,717 (1)Shares purchased pursuant to the November 15, 2013 publicly announced share repurchase authorization of up to $600,000 of outstanding common stock, which was increased by an authorization announced on September 9, 2015 for the repurchase of up to an additional $750,000 of outstanding common stock. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of certain matters, which is incorporated herein by reference. 63Item 6. Exhibits